# 1.11
Published on Nov 14, 2016

Treasure hunters, rejoice! Update 1.11, aka the Exploration Update, has now
made the treacherous journey from snapshot to full release. Our intrepid
developers have scaled mighty crags of code, ventured into untamed pre-release
territory and battled bugs to bring you wondrous gaming goodies!

If you haven’t got Minecraft for PC / Mac yet: [you can buy it
here](https://minecraft.net/en/store/minecraft/?ref=m)! It’s fun and gets
loads of massive, free updates like this one.

Some of these goodies may help you on your own journeys, too. 1.11 introduces
the Cartographer, a new type of Villager who will exchange your spare emeralds
for a map, marking the spot of certain treasure caches. But these locations
won’t give up their bounty so easily! Some maps may point you to mysterious
Ocean Monuments, patrolled by spiny Guardians, others to Woodland Mansions - a
new location, inhabited by the Villagers’ creepy cousins: the Illagers!

![](https://media.mojang.com/blog-
image/74aa5ee459a7c408c748dce915b8fdd420403a21/woodlandmansion.png)

These mean and miserly folk do not welcome interlopers: watch out for spells
which summon toothsome traps from the floor, or conjure nasty impish foes
called Vexes. Survive that, and you’ll find that the Woodland Mansion contains
a rather powerful prize: the Totem of Undying. With this trinket to hand, you
can face any peril without fear. Fall, and the Totem of Undying will bring you
back from the abyss of death itself! Phew!

But how will you transport all your amazing loot? Perhaps saddled to a llama!
These noble ruminants will form a caravan train that you lead across the land,
and can be decked out with snazzy drapes. They’re pretty feisty, too, and
chase off menaces with a hail of spitballs. Cool! Also, ew! Cewl?

[ **Update!** Clever Twitter user [ADHD_orc](http://www.twitter.com/adhd_orc)
points out that llamas aren’t actually ruminants! They’re camelids. Top fact!]

If their inventory is not enough to accommodate your needs, consider packing
your chattels into a Shulker Box - a special chest that retains its contents
even when knocked down. Handy!

There’s loads more to discover! But you’re brave adventurers, right? Find it
for yourself!

Keen to put 1.11 through its paces? Why not begin your journey in [this Lost
Civilisation map](https://aka.ms/mclostciv), made to showcase the features of
1.11 by the cool folk at [Blockception](http://www.blockception.com)? You can
[download it](https://aka.ms/mclostciv) or play it on
[Realms](https://minecraft.net/en/realms/)!

Cheerio!

Marsh - [@marshdavies](http://www.twitter.com/marshdavies)


