# 1.16
Published on 2020-06-23

One does not simply walk into the Nether, but it seems that's what everyone is
about to do anyway...

Today we're releasing the full Nether Update in all its glory! Traverse
through familiar, fiery wastes into new unexplored fungal forests, spooky
valleys, and deltas brimming with basalt. Dig your way through these biomes
and you might be able to find a new curious material, suspiciously titled
"ancient debris". What will you make of it (it’s totally not Netherite)?

Fight your way through hordes of Piglins… Or don't! They’re actually pretty
cool if you bring some bling. And in case you find yourself in the wrong end
of a bargain, make sure that you have access to a functional respawn anchor. I
advise you to not use your regular bed unless you’re feeling a bit…
“adventurous”.

Enjoy the update!

# Features

  * Added Basalt Deltas biome to the Nether
  * Added Crimson Forest biome to the Nether
  * Added Hoglins
  * Added Netherite
  * Added Piglins
  * Added ruined portals
  * Added Soulsand Valley biome to the Nether
  * Added Striders
  * Added Warped Forest biome to the Nether
  * Added Zoglins
  * Added a new disableChat command line option – when used, receiving and sending online chat is disabled
  * Added a new disableMultiplayer command line option – when used, the Multiplayer button is disabled
  * Added bastion remnants
  * Added new Game Mode Switcher debug menu
  * Added new Nether blocks
  * Added the Soul Speed enchantment
  * Added the lodestone
  * Added the respawn anchor that allows you to set your respawn point in the Nether. Use while holding glowstone to charge to a maximum of four charges – each respawn use one charge 
    * You can charge the respawn anchor using a dispenser
  * Added the target block
  * Basalt is formed when lava flows over soul soil next to blue ice
  * Bell blocks will now ring when hit by any projectile
  * Bells can now be hung from the underside of more blocks
  * Compasses can now be enchanted with Curse of Vanishing
  * Endermen can now pick up some of the new Nether blocks
  * Endermen will no longer pick up Netherrack
  * Entities now get pushed by flowing lava
  * Farmer Villagers can now compost seeds
  * Fish now despawn when further than 64 blocks away from the closest player
  * Knockback resistance is now a scale instead of a probability
  * Lily pads are now considered junk fishing loot rather than treasure
  * Patrols no longer spawn when the player is close to a village
  * TNT and campfires will now ignite when hit by any burning projectile
  * The General statistics list is now alphabetically sorted
  * Updated logos for Mojang Studios and Minecraft
  * Villagers can now spawn iron golems regardless of their profession status or latest working time
  * Walls do not have gaps anymore when stacked vertically
  * Walls will now connect to even more things, such as iron bars, panes, pressure plates, banners, and even pickles
  * When a Villager is struck by lightning, the witch it is converted to will no longer despawn
  * When fishing, treasure loot can now only be obtained by fishing in open waters

## Accessibility

  * Added "Line Spacing" chat and accessibility option
  * Added "Chat Delay" accessibility option

## Advancements

  * Piglins and Hoglins are now required for `Monster Hunter` and `Monsters Hunted`
  * `Serious Dedication` is now awarded for obtaining a Netherite hoe
  * Obtaining blackstone now also counts for the `Stone Age` advancement
  * Breeding Striders now counts for `The Parrots and the Bats` and is now required for `Two by Two`

### New Advancements

  * `Bullseye` unlocks when hitting the bullseye of a target block from at least 30 meters away
  * `Hidden in the Depths` unlocks when obtaining ancient debris
  * `Cover Me in Debris` unlocks when obtaining full Netherite armor
  * `Country Lode, Take Me Home` unlocks when using a compass on a lodestone
  * `Who Is Cutting Onions?` unlocks when obtaining crying obsidian
  * `Not Quite "Nine" Lives` unlocks when setting a respawn anchor to the maximum
  * `This Boat Has Legs` unlocks when riding a Strider with a fungus on a stick
  * `Hot Tourist Destinations` unlocks when visiting all biomes in the Nether
  * `Those Were the Days` unlocks when entering a bastion
  * `War Pigs` unlocks when looting a chest in a bastion
  * `Oh Shiny` unlocks when distracting an angry Piglin with gold

## Basalt Deltas

Basalt Deltas can now be found in the Nether!

  * Remnants of volcanic eruptions, this biome sports a high concentration of basalt columns and lava deltas
  * Walking through it, you will be surrounded by flowing flakes of white ash
  * Magma cubes finally have their own home and spawn very frequently here
  * A new block, blackstone, can be found here in large patches

## Bastion Remnants

What's made of blackstone and full of Piglins and Hoglins? Bastion remnants!

  * Added four separate bastion remnant types: bridge, Hoglin stable, housing units, and treasure room
  * You can find these sizable structures in all Nether biomes, except the treacherous ash-dusted regions of Basalt Deltas
  * Explore, loot, and conquer a bastion remnant to call it your home – but beware! Piglins don't take kindly to intruders stealing their possessions

## Bees

  * Reduced the maximum distance a bee can wander away from its home hive to ~22 blocks

## Blocks

Many new blocks have been added, and changes have been made to a few existing
ones.

  * Added crying obsidian. It's sad and cries purple energy
  * Added basalt. Craft it 2x2 or use a stone cutter to create clean and shiny polished basalt!
  * Added blackstone, along with its variants: regular, polished, and polished brick 
    * Blackstone can be used to craft furnaces and stone tools
  * Added gilded blackstone – blackstone which has been imbued with gold and has a chance of dropping gold nuggets when broken
  * Added chiseled Nether bricks, cracked Nether bricks, and quartz bricks
  * Added two new non-flammable wood-like blocks: crimson stems and warped stems
  * Added crimson and warped hyphae – all-sided "stem" blocks, including stripped variations
  * Added new ground surface blocks: crimson nylium and warped nylium
  * Added new vegetation: Nether sprouts, crimson roots, and warped roots
  * Added two types of fungi: crimson and warped. Try using bone meal to grow them! 
    * You can place crimson and warped roots and fungi into pots
  * Added warped wart blocks
  * Added weeping vines that grow from the bottom of a block downwards
  * Added twisting vines that grow upwards
  * Added a new natural light source block: Shroomlights
  * Added soul soil. Whenever fire burns on soul soil, it burns with a blue flame 
    * Soul soil and soul sand can be used to craft soul torches, which in turn can be crafted into soul lanterns
    * The Wither can now be summoned using soul soil as base
  * Added soul campfires. Warm your buns with the heat of one thousand souls!
  * Added chain blocks
  * Nether gold ore can now be found in the Nether – it drops a few gold nuggets and can be mined with any type of pickaxe
  * Bone meal can now be used to grow kelp, weeping vines, and twisting vines
  * Using bone meal on Netherrack can now spread nylium
  * Nether vegetation blocks (sprouts, roots, vines, fungus, wart and wart blocks) are now compostable
  * Nether sprouts can be harvested with shears
  * Food can now be placed on unlit campfires

## Creative Mode

  * You can now milk cows and Mooshrooms in creative mode
  * You can now get stew from Mooshrooms in creative mode
  * When using an empty bucket on water in creative mode, you now get a bucket of water. If you have a bucket of water in your inventory already, no additional water buckets will be added when you use your empty bucket on water

## Crimson Forest

Crimson Forests can now be found in the Nether!

  * Crimson nylium carpets the cave floor with all kinds of strange new vegetation
  * Crimson nylium can be bonemealed to get more of this strange new vegetation
  * Huge crimson fungi make up the "trees" of this forest, with Shroomlights lighting up the forest floor
  * Nether wart blocks can be cleared quickly using a hoe
  * Weeping vines grow from the cave ceilings and fungi
  * Hoglins wander these forests
  * Crimson spores swirl through the air

## Dispensers

  * Dispensers can now saddle pigs and horses
  * Dispensers can now put horse armor on horses
  * Dispensers can now put carpets on llamas
  * Dispensers can now put chests on llamas, donkeys and mules
  * Dispensers can now shear a Mooshroom
  * Dispensers can now shear snow golems

## F3 + N (Toggle Spectator)

A small change has been made to this debug combination.

  * By default, using this key would return you to Creative after toggling from Spectator. It now will toggle back to the previous game mode you had
  * As an example, if you were in Survival, then toggled to Spectator and back, you would be set back to Survival

## Farmers

  * Farmers can now put excess seeds in the composter to create bone meal 
    * Bone meal is used by the farmers to grow crops
  * Farmers share excess wheat to other farmers, so more farmers can make bread

## Game Mode Switcher

New F3 debug feature which allows you to switch game modes with traditional
"tabbing" functionality.

  * Hold F3 and tap F4 to open the menu
  * Tapping F4 will cycle the game mode, or you can use the mouse
  * Release F3 to apply
  * Your last game mode is remembered and will be the first selected option, so you can quickly toggle between two game modes with a single press of F3 + F4!

## Hoe Changes

We've made some changes to hoes to make them more useful in the Nether.

  * Each tier has different speed at which hoes mine blocks they are effective against
  * Hoes can now be enchanted with the following enchantments: Efficiency, Fortune, Silk Touch
  * Those enchantments can now be provided through enchanting table
  * Hoes are now the appropriate tool for mining hay, targets, dried kelp blocks, leaves, Shroomlights, Nether wart blocks, warped wart blocks, sponges, and wet sponges.

## Hoglins

  * Hoglins are big aggressive beasts that live in crimson forests in the Nether
  * They attack players on sight. Be careful – they can easily knock you off a ledge!
  * Hoglins drop pork and sometimes leather, but not willingly
  * You can breed Hoglins by feeding them crimson fungi. Do so at your own risk
  * Hoglins get hunted by Piglins sometimes, but they don't go down without a fight
  * Despite this, Hoglins and Piglins aren't enemies – more like an ecosystem
  * Baby Hoglins like to pretend they are tough – but don't worry, they're more bark than bite
  * Want to keep Hoglins off your back? Pro tip: Hoglins hate the smell of warped fungi
  * Hoglins that somehow end up in the Overworld become Zoglins fairly quickly – but who would ever bring a Hoglin to the Overworld?

## Lodestone

A new block that can help you get your bearings!

  * Crafted from a Netherite ingot and chiseled stone bricks
  * Use a compass on a lodestone to create a lodestone compass, which will point to that lodestone

## Mobs

  * Players can no longer mount another entity when the crouch key is held down
  * Added gamerule universalAnger (disabled by default), which makes angered neutral mobs attack any nearby player – not just the player that angered them. Works best if you disable forgiveDeadPlayers
  * Added gamerule forgiveDeadPlayers (enabled by default), which makes angered neutral mobs stop being angry when the targeted player dies nearby

### Forgive dead players

  * If this gamerule is disabled, then angered mobs will stay angry even if the targeted player dies
  * If both forgiveDeadPlayers and universalAnger are enabled, an angered neutral mob will stop being angry when their target dies. They won't seek any new targets after that 
    * Notable exception: Angered Zombified Piglins continuously spread anger. So even if one Zombified Piglin stops being angry because its target died, other angered Zombified Piglins nearby are likely to make it angry again. The only way to stop the anger is if none of the angered Zombified Piglins see a player for a while

### Neutral mob anger

Updated anger management for most neutral mobs (polar bear, wolf, bee,
Enderman, Piglin, Zombified Piglin).

  * When hurt by a player, the neutral mob will target that player and try to kill it
  * The mob will stay angry until the player is dead or out of sight for a while
  * Anger is persistent, so a player can't escape by temporarily logging out or switching dimension
  * If a targeted player dies near the angered mob, it will stop being angry (unless forgiveDeadPlayers is disabled)
  * Neutral mobs also get angry at other mobs who hurt them. However, that anger is not persistent
  * Angered neutral mobs will only attack the offending player, not innocent bystanders 
    * Notable exception: If a beehive or nest is broken, the bees will be angry at all nearby players
  * Some mobs spread anger (wolf, Zombified Piglin, Piglin, bee). If a player attacks one, all nearby mobs of the same type will get angry at that player

### Universal anger

Universal anger is basically guilt by association. A neutral mob attacked by
players will be angry at players in general, regardless of who attacked them.
More specifically:

  * A neutral mob attacked by a player will target the nearest player, even if that player wasn't the attacker
  * Every time the neutral mob is hit by a player it will update its attack target to the nearest player
  * Players can use this to make neutral mobs attack other players. Who would ever do something that devious?
  * Universal anger does not apply when a neutral mob is attacked by another mob - only when it is attacked by a player
  * Universal anger is persistent. The angered mob will stay angry even if the player logs out and logs in, or jumps through a portal and back
  * Mobs that spread anger will also spread universal anger. So if a player attacks a Zombified Piglin, all other Zombified Piglins within sight will be universally angry and attack their nearest player
  * An angered neutral mob will stop being angry if it can't see any eligible target for a while

### Zombified Piglins

  * Zombie Pigmen are now known as Zombified Piglins, and they now have ears. Well, at least one ear
  * Zombified Piglins no longer attack innocent bystanders (unless you enable gamerule universalAnger)
  * Zombified Piglins stop being angry if the targeted player dies nearby (unless you disable gamerule forgiveDeadPlayers)
  * Zombified Piglins continuously spread to other Zombified Piglins, as long as they see their target

## Nether Biome Fog

  * Biome fog color smoothly blends between biomes. Smooth!

## Netherite

  * A new high-level material found in the Nether. Use it to upgrade your diamond gear!

### How to make Netherite

  1. Mine ancient debris in the lower depths of the Nether. At your own risk though. No insurance coverage for that
  2. Refine it into Netherite scrap in a furnace or blast furnace
  3. Combine four Netherite scrap with four gold ingots in a crafting table to make a Netherite ingot
  4. Use a smithing table to fuse the Netherite ingot with your diamond weapon, tool, or armor

### Netherite effects

  * Netherite items float in lava – just so you don't lose all your gear after that unplanned lava bath
  * Netherite items have higher enchantment value than diamond (but not as high as gold)
  * Netherite tools work faster and last longer than diamond
  * Netherite weapons do more damage than diamond
  * Netherite armor have higher toughness and durability than diamond
  * Netherite armor gives you knockback resistance, so you barely get knocked back at all when hit by arrows and such
  * Netherite blocks can be used as the base of a beacon and Netherite ingots can be used as the fuel for a beacon. Weird flex but ok
  * ...and it looks cool!

## Parity

  * Changed ambient block lighting in the Nether for parity with Bedrock edition

## Parrot

  * Parrots imitate hostile mobs less often
  * Parrots do not randomly imitate hostile mobs when gamemode is on peaceful

## Piglins

  * Piglins are an aggressive civilization that lives in the Nether
  * They mostly hang around in Crimson Forests, but you might find some in the Nether Wastes too
  * They think of players as target practice and will attack on sight
  * However, if you dress appropriately, they will see you as a respectable figure. Or tolerable at least
  * Piglins are suspicious of strangers. If they see you opening a chest or other container, they will assume that you're stealing and will treat you accordingly
  * If Piglins hear you break a chest or a block of gold (or similar), they will also assume you are stealing
  * Piglins LOVE gold and get very distracted by gold items
  * Gold ingots are currency to Piglins. Throw ingots at them, or right-click them with an ingot, to barter for various goods
  * Piglins sometimes get hungry and hunt Hoglins for food. Or they try at least. They results... vary.
  * Piglins prefer to hunt and fight in groups. When a fight is happening, everyone wants in
  * Piglins that somehow end up in the Overworld become zombified fairly quickly
  * Piglins are creeped out by soul fire and Zombified Piglins, and will avoid them if possible
  * Wither skeletons and Withers are historic enemies of the Piglins and will be attacked on sight
  * Baby Piglins are not as dangerous, but they can be mischievous, so watch your back 
    * ...and they like to play with Baby Hoglins
  * Added a Piglin banner pattern that can be found in bastion remnants

## Redstonewire

The blockstate, rendering, and behavior of redstone wire are more in line with
each other. Redstone will provide power to blocks on all sides it shows a
visual connection to, and not do so on those sides without a visual
connection.

  * A dot of redstone will not power its surrounding blocks
  * A single redstone wire is now represented as a cross
  * A wire on top of a block, which is redirected from below, will now power the sides it is redirected to. E.g. a fence gate above the redirecting wire will be powered
  * Wires that redirect upwards to wires on non-conductive blocks used to only be redirected visually. Now, this redirection applies to their behavior as well
  * A wire that is redirected to go over a block will now always provide power to the block. This is most noticeable when the wire has signal strength 1
  * When right-clicking a single piece of redstone, it will toggle between a the cross and the dot

### Target block

  * The target block now conducts redstone signals

## Ruined Portals

Shattered remains of ancient Nether portals. Wonder who built them?

  * They can be found in any Overworld or Nether biome
  * Some are hidden underground, under the sea, or buried in sand

## Soul Speed

Never suffer again drudging through Soul Sand Valleys – Soul Speed has you
covered!

  * Shine your boots of choice with this soul-sucking enchantment to speed around on soul sand and soul soil
  * However, there's a downside: enchantments will slowly degrade your boots each soul block you walk on
  * Can only be obtained by bartering with those pesky Piglins

## Soulsand Valley

Soulsand Valleys can now be found in the Nether!

  * An open space made mostly of soul sand and soul soil
  * Basalt pillars span from floor to ceiling
  * Fossile remains of unknown creatures from the past litter the valley
  * Ash falls through the air
  * A light blue glow envelopes the valley
  * Beware of skeletons here

## Sounds

  * Ghasts sounds are now heard at shorter range
  * Updated block sounds for bone blocks, Netherrack, soul sand, Nether wart, Nether bricks, and quartz ore
  * New ambient sounds for the Nether biomes
  * New mood detection algorithm for cave sounds
  * Added a new music disc titled "Pigstep" by Lena Raine, which can only be found in bastion remnants

## Strider

A new mob living the lava lakes of the Nether.

  * Strides on top of the surface of lava
  * Can be saddled, but has a will of its own
  * Really likes the smell of warped fungi – might even be convinced to follow it

## Target Block

Because let's face it, your aim could use some practice!

  * The closer you hit to the center, the larger the redstone signal
  * Test your skills with a variety of projectiles, including eggs, snowballs, tridents, and more
  * You will need one hay block and four redstone for this recipe

## Villager Workstation Logic

  * Villagers no longer try to work at the same workstation
  * The most experienced nearby villager for the profession corresponding to the workstation you add will get the workstation
  * Villagers now have to walk to and reach the workstation before they can acquire the profession and/or work there
  * Villagers can no longer claim workstations or professions during raids or night time
  * Villagers will check and make sure their workstation is valid at all times of day as long as they are within 16 blocks of their workstation

## Warped Forest

Warped Forests can now be found in the Nether!

  * Warped nylium carpets the cave floor with all kinds of strange new vegetation
  * Warped nylium can be bonemealed to get more of the strange new vegetation
  * Huge warped fungi make up the "trees" of this forest, with Shroomlights lighting up the forest floor
  * Warped wart blocks can be cleared quickly using a hoe
  * A dark blue fog covers the forest
  * Warped spores swirl through the air
  * The Warped Forests are strange, but also the least hostile place in the Nether

## Weeping Vines

  * Weeping vines are climbable!

## World Generation

  * The old Nether biome is now called Nether Wastes
  * Shipwrecks and ocean ruins are now a bit less common, so you get more excited when you find one!
  * Patches of blackstone and gravel now generate in all Nether biomes, and patches of soul sand now generate in Soul Sand Valleys

## Zoglins

  * Zoglins are zombified Hoglins – the result of bringing a Hoglin into the Overworld
  * Unlike Hoglins, they can't be bred or fed, and they don't care about warped fungus
  * Beware – these beasts are raving mad and attack just about everything they see!

# Technical

  * Added `target_hit` advancement trigger
  * Added `thrown_item_picked_up_by_entity` advancement trigger
  * Added `player_generates_container_loot` advancement trigger
  * Added `item_used_on_block` advancement trigger
  * Removed `safely_harvest_honey` advancement trigger
  * Added `player` check to every trigger (except `impossible`)
  * Entity checks in triggers can now use loot table condition syntax
  * Attributes are now added to game registry, similar to items, sound events, etc.
  * Chat component style can now select font.
  * Block storage format in chunks slightly changed to speed up various tasks (rendering, pathfinding, world generation, etc).
  * Added a `locatebiome` command
  * Tab completion for resource location will match any part after an `_`
  * The compass now has `LodestonePos`, `LodestoneDimension` and `LodestoneTracked` data fields. If `LodestoneTracked` is zero, the game will skip checking for a Lodestone in the specified position
  * Slightly changed datapack loading to prevent custom datapacks from crashing
  * Data packs can now be selected on world creation
  * Added a `enable-status` option to the server.properties file which if set to `false` will suppress replies to status requests from clients. This makes the server appear offline in the multiplayer screen
  * Full range of Unicode characters is now supported (some may know what that means 😉)
  * Mobs avoid walking on magma blocks and lit campfires
  * Cached repeated block type lookups and collisions during pathfinding for increased performance
  * Minor optimizations in collision detection
  * Top level element in predicate file can now be array (all contents will be ANDed)
  * Smithing recipes can now be added or changed through data packs
  * Added control over how much entity data a server sends to clients
  * Added a JMX MBean to monitor dedicated server tick times
  * Shulkers with "NoAI" can now be summoned with rotation
  * Added `strider_one_cm` custom statistics for riding Striders
  * Expanded the max size per axis of structure blocks from 32 to 48
  * Region files are now opened in synchronous mode to increase reliability
  * Difficulty and game rules can now be changed from "Create World" screen
  * "Singleplayer" button will jump directly to "Create World" screen if there are no worlds to select
  * Temporarily removed structure settings from flat level preset strings (workaround: use import/export settings functionality)

## Advancements

### Extended entity checks

Entity checks in triggers can now use loot table condition syntax.

Old notation:

```json { "trigger": "minecraft:player _killed_ entity", "conditions": {
"entity": { "type": "minecraft:blaze" } } } ```

is now equivalent to:

```json { "trigger": "minecraft:player _killed_ entity", "conditions": {
"entity": [ { "condition": "minecraft:entity_properties", "predicate": {
"type": "minecraft:blaze" }, "entity": "this" } ] } } ```

**Note 1** : Like in loot tables, all conditions in top level array must be
met for whole condition to trigger. **Note 2** : To access new functionality,
top level element must be JSON array. JSON object are interpreted as old
notation.

Full list of extended triggers:

  * New field `player` in every trigger
  * `bred_animals` \- `parent`, `partner`, `child`
  * `channeled_lightning` \- `victims`
  * `cured_zombie_villager` \- `zombie`, `villager`
  * `fishing_rod_hooked` \- `entity`
  * `killed_by_crossbow` \- `victims`
  * `player_killed_entity` \- `entity`
  * `entity_killed_player` \- `entity`
  * `player_hurt_entity` \- `entity`
  * `summoned_entity` \- `entity`
  * `tame_animal` \- `entity`
  * `target_hit` \- `projectile`
  * `villager_trade` \- `villager`

### Miscellaneous trigger changes

  * Due to addition of `player`, existing contents of `location`, `slept_in_bed`, `hero_of_the_village`, `voluntary_exile` can now be placed in `location` field instead of top-level object. Old syntax is still supported, but depreciated.
  * `location` got a new property `smokey` which checks if the location is closely above a campfire
  * `entity_properties` got new properties `vehicle` and `targetedEntity` which match the vehicle or the entity targeted by a mob

### New trigger

  * `target_hit` trigger type 
    * `signal_strength` matches the signal strength output from the block on hit
    * `projectile` matches the projectile entity
    * `shooter` matches the player who shot or threw the projectile
  * `item_used_on_block` trigger type 
    * `item` matches the thrown item which was picked up
    * `entity` matches the entity which picked up the item
  * `player_generates_container_loot` trigger type 
    * `loot_table` matches the resource location of the generated loot table
  * `item_used_on_block` trigger type 
    * `location` matches the location at the center of the block the item was used on
    * `item` matches the item used on the block

## Attributes

Attributes have been moved to game registry. That means few changes: Renames:

  * Items and entities will no longer keep unknown attributes
  * Names of some attributes have been renamed to meet resource location requirements
  * `generic.maxHealth` 🡆 `generic.max_health`
  * `zombie.spawnReinforcements` 🡆 `zombie.spawn_reinforcements`
  * `horse.jumpStrength` 🡆 `horse.jump_strength`
  * `generic.followRange` 🡆 `generic.follow_range`
  * `generic.knockbackResistance` 🡆 `generic.knockback_resistance`
  * `generic.movementSpeed` 🡆 `generic.movement_speed`
  * `generic.flyingSpeed` 🡆 `generic.flying_speed`
  * `generic.attackDamage` 🡆 `generic.attack_damage`
  * `generic.attackKnockback` 🡆 `generic.attack_knockback`
  * `generic.attackSpeed` 🡆 `generic.attack_speed`
  * `generic.armorToughness` 🡆 `generic.armor_toughness`

## Block placement

  * Ladders and tripwire hooks can now be placed on observers, redstone blocks, and target blocks
  * Doors, rails, buttons, pressure plates, redstone, and more can now be placed on soulsand and full-block of snow layers
  * Soulsand with a rail on top will no longer slow down minecarts

## Block storage

`BlockStates` in `Sections` elements no longer contain values stretching over
multiple 64-bit fields. If number of bits per block is not power of two (i.e.
single 64-bit value can't fill whole number of blockstates) some bits will not
be used. For example, if single block state takes 5 bits, highest 4 bits of
every 64-bit field will be unused. That also means slight increase in storage
size (in case of 5 bits, from 320 to 342 64-bit fields).

## Block Tags

  * `minecraft:climbable` is now a block tag that allows datapacks to determine which blocks are, well, climbable
  * `minecraft:soul_speed_blocks` is any block that the soul speed enchantment increases speed on

## Chat components

### Hover event argument

  * `style.hoverEvent` parameter now has parameter `contents`, with contents depending on type: 
    * For `show_text` \- chat component
    * For `show_item` \- either item id or object with fields `id`, `count`, and `tag` (with last one being serialized NBT)
    * For `show_entity` \- object with fields: `id` (UUID), `name` (chat component), and `type` (entity type resource location)
  * Old style `value` argument is now deprecated (but still supported)

## Commands

### attribute

Adds modifies attribute on single entity. Possible syntax: Parameters:

  * `attribute get []` \- get total value of attribute
  * `attribute base set` \- sets base valye
  * `attribute base get []` \- get base value
  * `attribute modifier add add|multiply|multiply_base` \- adds modifier (fails if modifier is already present)
  * `attribute modifier remove` \- removes modifier
  * `attribute modifier value get []` \- get value of modifier
  * `target` \- single entity (note: only players, armor stands and mobs have attributes)
  * `attribute` \- name of attribute (like `minecraft:generic.max_health`)
  * `name` \- string (in optional quotes) describing human-readable name of modifier
  * `value` \- floating point value (note: certain attributes have limits on final value, so your change might not be noticeable)

### locatebiome

New command that locates a specified biome. Useful in creative mode when
you're looking for a specific biome and don't want to fly around randomly
searching for it. Syntax: `locatebiome` Parameters:

  * `biome` \- The id of the biome to find

### spawnpoint

The spawnpoint command now supports being run in any dimension.

### spreadplayers

Added an optional argument to specify maximum height. New syntax:
`spreadplayers <center> [under ]`

  * `maxHeight` \- Specifies the maximum height for resulting positions

### UUIDs in NBT

UUIDs stored in NBT are now represented as an array of four integers. Example:
`{UUID:[I;1498693494,1027158888,1898994005,860320107]}` Along with that a
couple of fields have been renamed:

  * `OwnerUUID` of tamed animals, area effect clouds, evoker fangs and projectiles is now simply `Owner`
  * `TrustedUUIDs` of foxes is now `Trusted`
  * `target_uuid` of conduits is now `Target`

## Custom Worlds

  * Added experimental support for new custom worlds
  * Edit world screen now has an option to export world settings to a JSON file
  * During world creation you can import previously exported world settings
  * A bunch of new parameters are exposed, but marked as experimental, meaning you can play with them, but there is no guarantee that any of them will continue working (even in the next snapshot!)
  * Flat level preset string lost structure settings (they are now stored in a common format for all worlds), we will restore some form of this functionality soon
  * Buffet world can no longer be created from server.properties, flat level settings changed a bit; better support for custom world creation on the server is coming soon

## Data pack selection

  * Data packs can now be selected before world is created
  * "Re-Create" option will also copy data packs present in source world

## Datapack loading

  * If datapack reload fails, changes will not be applied and game will continue using previous data
  * If existing datapacks prevent world from loading, game will give option to load world in safe mode, which loads only vanilla datapack
  * Changes to datapack list are stored only after successful reload
  * Added `--safeMode` option to server to load only with vanilla datapack
  * Game will now detect critical datapack issues, like missing required tags and prevent world from being loaded

## Effects

  * Increased view distance in lava slightly while having the fire resistance effect

## Entity Broadcasting

It is now possible to control at what range the server sends data about
entities to clients.

  * Added an `entity-broadcast-range-percentage` server property controlling how close entities need to be before being sent to clients. Higher values means entities are visible further away from players but cause more network traffic. Specifies percentage of default value, so for example `50` specifies half of the default range

## Fonts

  * `Force Unicode` option now switches between normal and alternative font (called `uniform.json`) – no reload needed

## IO operations

### Synchronous writes

Region files are now opened in synchronous mode to prevent data loss and
corruption after crash. For performance reasons this feature is disabled by
default on non-Windows clients. Status of this feature can be manually
controlled by following options:

  * For dedicated servers: `sync-chunk-writes` within `server.properties`
  * For clients: `syncChunkWrites` within `options.txt`

### World save format

  * Saving `level.dat` now uses randomly-named temporary files (instead of using `level.dat_new` every time)
  * `player/*.dat` are now saved in a way similar to `level.dat` (including leaving `.dat_old` files)

## Item frames

### New tags

  * `Invisible` \- makes item frame invisible (item inside frame remains visible)
  * `Fixed` \- prevents item frame from being broken and item inside from being removed

## Jigsaw block

  * Jigsaw now can have one of 12 orientations
  * Added new property `Joint type` to describe if attached piece can be rotated (`rollable`) or not (`aligned`)
  * NBT field `target_pool` has been renamed to `pool`
  * `attachement_type` has been split into `name` (on parent block) and `target` (on child block)
  * Added a button in the GUI that generates a jigsaw structure starting from the jigsaw block, using given generation depth

## JMX Monitoring

It is now possible to monitor the server tick times though JMX. The rationale
for this is that JMX is a well known and supported monitoring technology with
existing integrations and tools. This enables server admins to hook alerts and
graphing tools using ordinary JMX clients and dashboards.

### Enabling JMX Monitoring

  * A new flag `enable-jmx-monitoring` has been added to the server.properties file which if set to `true` will expose an MBean with the Object name `net.minecraft.server:type=Server` and two attributes `averageTickTime` and `tickTimes` exposing the tick times in milliseconds
  * In order for enabling JMX on the Java runtime you also need to add a couple of JVM flags to the startup as documented [here](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/management/agent.html)

## Loot Tables

### Entity Predicate

  * Added `fishing_hook` sub-predicate

#### fishing_hook

Check properties of the fishing hook

##### Parameters

  * `in_open_water` \- Matches whether the fishing location is open water fishing or not. A fishing location is considered to be open water if the fishing hook is in water, there are no blocks besides lily pads above water and all water blocks are source blocks with no solid underwater blocks around

## Pack selection screen

  * Packs can now be dropped directly on data and resource pack selection screens
  * Dropped files and directories will be copied to appropriate places

## Particles

  * New particle types: `ash`, `crimson_spore`, `soul_fire_flame`, and `warped_spore`
  * New particle types: `dripping_obsidian_tear`, `falling_obsidian_tear`, and `landing_obsidian_tear`
  * New particle type: `soul`

## Rendering

  * Nailed Entity shadows to the ground
  * Added an Entity Distance scale option ranging from 50% to 500%
  * Added shader support for accessing depth buffer
  * Added new "Fabulous!" graphics option 
    * This uses per-pixel blending layers for some transparent elements

## Smithing recipes

There's now a `smithing` recipe type. Recipes of this type are used in the
smithing table to upgrade one item type into another type, maintaining tags.

  * `base` \- Ingredient specifying an item to be upgraded
  * `addition` \- Ingredient specifying valid items to trigger the upgrade
  * `result` \- Item specifying the resulting type of the upgraded item

## Text style

### Colors

`color` property can now contain RGB value prefixed by `#`. For example
`#55ff55` will result in the same color as `green`

### Custom fonts

Chat component style now supports `font` property, which is resource location
for font in resource pack. No entry is equivalent to `minecraft:default`

## Fixed Bugs

[Nearly 500 bugs](https://bugs.mojang.com/issues/?filter=24954) fixed in this
release.

# Get the Release

​ To install the release, open up the [Minecraft
Launcher](https://www.minecraft.net/download) and click play!

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/v1/objects/a0d03225615ba897619220e256a266cb33a44b6b/server.jar)


