# 1.9.3-pre3
Published on May 2, 2016

First we assumed one pre-release for Minecraft 1.9.3 would be all we need to
ensure a stable update. And then we had to release a second pre-release the
next week to fix the remaining issues. And, because the third time’s a charm,
here is the third Minecraft 1.9.3 pre-release.

If everything works out as planned, we will release the update to Minecraft
1.9.3 early next week. Of course I shouldn’t have mentioned that, because now
I’m just asking for something else to come up and delay it.

Notable changes:

  * Changed some changes that we made in 1.9.3 pre-release 2
  * Fixed a potential crash with spreading water or lava
  * Added 0.17% more cowbell

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “ _New Profile_ ” button.
Call it “snapshots” and check the box saying “ _Enable experimental
development snapshots_ ” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can
select it in the dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up
your world first or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new
profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

[Minecraft server
jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/1.9.3-pre3/server/ef902371fa5cbb50288b4801f9e58432c627d8e7/server.jar)


