# 15w31a
Published on Jul 29, 2015

**Update: Snapshot 15w31c has been released containing all of the following
wonderful new bugfixes.[Grab the server
here!](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/15w31c/server/4fec021cc8110ce87451e22e23e958ce9d8d61f2/server.jar)**

  * [Bug [MC-2835](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-2835)] - Resizing the Minecraft window while dead grays out the Respawn/Exit to Menu buttons and several other screens
  * [Bug [MC-67952](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-67952)] - XP Orbs have graphical bugs when looking straight down
  * [Bug [MC-82821](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82821)] - Levitation potion is named “potion.levitation”
  * [Bug [MC-82824](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82824)] - Picking up items doesnt stack them into the offhand slot.
  * [Bug [MC-82828](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82828)] - 1/4 of stairs get rendered incorrectly on one side while in hotbar
  * [Bug [MC-82832](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82832)] - End Portal Spawns position changes
  * [Bug [MC-82870](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82870)] - Chorus Plant Hitbox
  * [Bug [MC-82901](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82901)] - Slight player offset when on Grass Path Block
  * [Bug [MC-82928](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82928)] - Items being slightly pushed down in the screen.
  * [Bug [MC-83004](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83004)] - Player in the Inventory is not displaying correctly when not holding an item in the first slot!
  * [Bug [MC-83068](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83068)] - Fire floats above block
  * [Bug [MC-83079](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83079)] - Chest model in hand tilted awkwardly
  * [Bug [MC-83163](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83163)] - Purpur double slabs drop nothing when broken
  * [Bug [MC-83239](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83239)] - Respawned dragon doesn’t have a health bar
  * [Bug [MC-83448](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83448)] - Dragon respawns in old world
  * [Bug [MC-83702](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83702)] - Subsequent dragons drop another egg when killed
  * [Bug [MC-83883](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83883)] - Using banner on cauldron creates another banner of last stage
  * [Bug [MC-83894](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83894)] - /replaceitem cannot place non-armor items into mobs’ head slot
  * [Bug [MC-83906](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83906)] - Map in offhand shows arms when invisible
  * [Bug [MC-83943](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83943)] - When I use pick block on double purpur slab blocks it doesnt do anything.
  * [Bug [MC-84000](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-84000)] - Holding enchanted armour gives same effects as wearing it
  * [Bug [MC-84035](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-84035)] - Enderdragon can’t die unless perched on portal
  * [Bug [MC-84131](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-84131)] - Potion of water breathing missing and fire resistance (8:00) not working as expected
  * [Bug [MC-84191](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-84191)] - Shulker looks weird when it rides on minecart
  * [Bug [MC-84198](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-84198)] - Chorus Fruit can teleport you to the roof of the Nether

**Update: Snapshot 15w31b has been released and contains the following (and
probably some more) bugfixes:**

  * [Bug [MC-82808](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82808)] - New arrow names
  * [Bug [MC-82809](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82809)] - Texture errors for Spectral Arrow
  * [Bug [MC-82819](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82819)] - Levitating for too long kicks the player
  * [Bug [MC-82842](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82842)] - Multiplayer whenever someone mines the body of another player shakes
  * [Bug [MC-82859](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82859)] - You get a stack of the new arrow upon picking it up on the ground
  * [Bug [MC-82873](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82873)] - Cannot get property on Rails
  * [Bug [MC-82874](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82874)] - When you do /kill with a left arm set it goes to a right arm
  * [Bug [MC-82876](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82876)] - Hide particles not working
  * [Bug [MC-82880](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82880)] - Cannot get property while planting cocoa beans.
  * [Bug [MC-82896](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82896)] - /clear doesn’t clear slots other than main inventory
  * [Bug [MC-82907](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82907)] - Signed Book and Quil messed up result
  * [Bug [MC-82938](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82938)] - Enderman missplaced arm + head
  * [Bug [MC-83041](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83041)] - Armor slots in /replaceitem do not work as intended
  * [Bug [MC-83143](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83143)] - Glowing effect does not have team color around armor or held items
  * [Bug [MC-83187](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83187)] - Signs show opening and closing quotes on each line
  * [Bug [MC-83313](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83313)] - Failed to save chunk java.io.UTFDataFormatException: encoded string too long: 65541 bytes
  * [Bug [MC-83460](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83460)] - Tellraw is completely broken!
  * [Bug [MC-83623](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83623)] - Item models break when tools with durability use the Unbreakable tag.
  * [Bug [MC-83709](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83709)] - Scrolling in the “Miscellaneous” creative inventory tab skips one row
  * [Bug [MC-83818](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83818)] - [Resource Pack Bug] Crash when using cull faces with multipart blockstates
  * [Bug [MC-83838](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83838)] - ShulkerBullet NBT gets corrupted when (Owner,) Target and Pos position are equal

_15w31a:_

It’s time! It’s that time again! It’s finally here! It’s snapshot time!
Snapshots!

A little later than I’d have liked, but we’re now ready to start public
testing of Minecraft 1.9: The Combat Update. As you can expect from the name,
the update is mostly about cuddling and farming plants.

I’m not going to tell you what’s new, but I will tell you what **isn’t** new…
yet. These are the things you should not expect to find in this super-alpha-
development-preview-test-build-thing:

  * Any balancing of any kind. Seriously, expect things to be hilariously overpowered or underpowered.
  * Melee combat changes. Melee combat **will change** , just not in this snapshot.
  * Shields. They tie into the melee combat changes.
  * The meaning of life. That’s also for another snapshot.
  * Hugs. You can find those [over here](https://twitter.com/Dinnerbone) instead.
  * Perfect respawn mechanics of the end. You can respawn the dragon right now by drawing a creeper face with clay, but it won’t respawn everything yet. That’s temporary.
  * Lots of new items/blocks which don’t exist yet. That’s why you’re respawning the dragon like above.
  * New potions or enchantments. There will be new ones, just not right now!
  * Subtitles support. It’s still planned for 1.9!
  * Proper offhand interaction support. Right now it doesn’t entirely work as expected, we have to go through every interaction and decide what should happen each time.
  * Lots of stuff, really. We have a lot of things planned for 1.9, and this is just the first snapshot. Gotta keep some surprises!

A note for resource pack authors: We have changed the format of resource packs
slightly, and have support for versioning packs now. You can still use
incompatible packs, it just needs extra confirmation from the user.

A note for everybody else: Back up your world before updating. Things will
break, especially in such an early snapshot. Backup your world. Back it up. Do
it now.

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “New Profile” button. Call
it “snapshots” and check the box saying “Enable experimental development
snapshots” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can select it in the
dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up your world first
or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:
<https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/15w31c/server/4fec021cc8110ce87451e22e23e958ce9d8d61f2/server.jar>


