# 15w34a
Published on Aug 19, 2015

**Update:** Snapshot 15w34d has been released to fix a memory allocation crash
with the previous snapshot. Blame grum.

**Update:** Snapshot 15w34c has been released with even more changes to the
melee combat mechanics, and some further (experimental) optimisations. Another
reminder, **nothing is final, we aren’t finished yet, and we are taking all
feedback into account whilst designing the new gameplay.** Take a backup
before trying this snapshot, as it may break your world (in which case, you
may yell at [grum](https://twitter.com/_grum)).

**Update:** Snapshot 15w34b has been released with further changes to the
melee combat mechanics. Once again, please remember that the changes are
**absolutely not final nor balanced not even a little bit.**

Zoooom!

That’s the sound of this update being pushed out really fast, due to some new
speedy optimisations and speedy combat mechanics.

Todays snapshot makes a start on the melee combat changes, which are
**completely not final nor balanced at all in the absolute slightest not even
a little bit really honestly seriously**. We welcome all feedback, but please
remember that nothing is yet balanced and the mechanics themselves are subject
to change and redesign.

Here are some of the notable changes:

  * New “attack strength” combat mechanic.
  * Maps now start at a more useful zoom level.
  * New recipe for zooming in a map.
  * Lots of optimisations!
  * Improved command blocks.
  * Worsened Zombies’ arms getting tired.

And these are some of the fixed bugs:

  * [Bug [MC-83471](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-83471)] - “CustomPotionEffects” Inoperable with Splash / lingering Potions
  * [Bug [MC-85115](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-85115)] - Dragon Fireball doesn’t have a name (entity.DragonFireball.name)
  * [Bug [MC-85592](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-85592)] - Default log4j2.xml is suboptimal
  * [Bug [MC-86137](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-86137)] - Crash when breaking heads
  * [Bug [MC-86138](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-86138)] - Pick block on Mob (Dragon) Head / Structure block crashes the game
  * [Bug [MC-86152](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-86152)] - Records lose their custom name when placed in a record player

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “New Profile” button. Call
it “snapshots” and check the box saying “Enable experimental development
snapshots” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can select it in the
dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up your world first
or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:
<https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/15w34d/server/8bf058527fd4bd5d2951e1573d0ff849aedb0197/server.jar>


