# 15w42a
Published on Oct 14, 2015

Today is a very special day. Do you know why? No? Well then nevermind, it
clearly isn’t important.

Oh, you’d like to know? Well, fine, I guess. It’s a snapshot day. There, happy
now? You’ve gone and ruined all the surprise. I might as well just tell you
exactly what’s in the snapshot then, and forgo any fun or mystery.

Notable changes:

  * Added two new “treasure” enchantments: “Frost Walker” and “Mending”.
  * Treasure enchantments cannot be created, only found.
  * “Frost Walker” enchant leaves a path of frost (new block) behind you, when walking across water.
  * “Mending” enchant allows items to stay durable, at a cost.
  * Improved speed & handling of boats.
  * Added new cost to using brewing stands.
  * Fixed a bunch of bugs.
  * Optimised a bunch of plugs.
  * Drank from a bunch of jugs.

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “New Profile” button. Call
it “snapshots” and check the box saying “Enable experimental development
snapshots” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can select it in the
dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up your world first
or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

[Minecraft
jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/15w42a/server/d789ab5179e3bb5d298d82570ee123457cfdfb94/server.jar)


