# 15w50a
Published on Dec 9, 2015

Bugs. More bugs. They are everywhere. But more and more of them get removed
every week. So here is another development snapshot that hopefully fixes more
bugs than it introduces. If your “favorite” bug is still not fixed in this
version, do not worry. All important bugs will be fixed before we even
consider releasing a final 1.9 version of the game.

As always, if you want us to look into certain bugs with higher priority, vote
for the most annoying bugs on our bug tracker to draw our attention to them.
We will eventually dedicate some time to look into the highest voted bugs
irrespective of their severity.

_Notable changes:_

  * More bugs are fixed
  * Order of issues on todo list inverted
  * More sounds are still being added
  * The AI is now another 1.79% smarter than before
  * Working on todo list from bottom to top now
  * Monster try to avoid more dangerous things in the world

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “New Profile” button. Call
it “snapshots” and check the box saying “Enable experimental development
snapshots” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can select it in the
dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up your world first
or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

[Minecraft server
jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/15w50a/server/3ce8624859c8d38b38d2209e30f4fe76b2866de9/server.jar)


