# 16w03a
Published on Jan 20, 2016

Here is a new snapshot. We made it. For you. So that you can see what we’ve
been working on most recently and tell us what you think about it. Nothing in
it is final, everything could change before Minecraft 1.9 is relased, but most
things won’t.

Some things that were broken in the previous snapshot (16w02a) are not fixed
or changed back in this snapshot, because we had to focus on few very
important bigger tasks to work on before we can go back working on smaller
changes. This is nothing to worry about and perfectly normal so close to
finishing a release, so don’t get upset if you see things that are still in
the same state as last week. We’ll take care of them soon and definitely
before we call Minecraft 1.9 done.

Once again, thanks to everyone who is reporting bugs, testing the snapshots
and sending us feedback on our changes. Without your constant feedback, we
wouldn’t be able to focus on the important issues that need fixing before we
can call Minecraft 1.9 done.

Notable changes:

  * Bugs, bug and more bugs. Most of them fixed, only very few new ones introduced.
  * Less flickering in chunk rendering when blocks are placed or broken.
  * The end has opened its gates again, travelling to this dimension is not restricted anymore.
  * The world also more diverse again, many biomes are back from their vacation.
  * More new sounds and some updated sounds.
  * Removed Herobrine.

Bugs fixed in this snapshot:

  * [Bug [MC-779](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-779)] - Some entities are displayed outside of their spawner
  * [Bug [MC-68383](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-68383)] - Certain entities not properly showing CustomName when CustomNameVisible set to true
  * [Bug [MC-71006](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-71006)] - Minecart with Hopper and Minecart with Chest’s GUIs’ name is Minecart.
  * [Bug [MC-80826](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-80826)] - achievement command works unreliable with statistics
  * [Bug [MC-95539](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-95539)] - All damage types cause knockback
  * [Bug [MC-95541](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-95541)] - Beacon NPE: Failed to load data for block entity
  * [Bug [MC-95612](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-95612)] - Variant biomes / M-types / Sunflower Plains no longer being generated.

More bugs fixed in this snapshot:

  * Some serious issues that were not reported on our bugtracker, so they don’t have a MC-number or ticket.

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “ _New Profile_ ” button.
Call it “snapshots” and check the box saying “ _Enable experimental
development snapshots_ ” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can
select it in the dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up
your world first or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new
profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

[Minecraft server
jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/16w03a/server/ab14d7c921434c4651d171ce7f2873f56e8a7316/server.jar)


