# 16w05a
Published on Feb 3, 2016

**Update:** Minecraft snapshot version 16w05b is now available in the
launcher.

This weeks snapshot contains only few fixed for bugs reported on the bug
tracker. We started looking at the Realms integration to make sure everything
is up to date with the changes that were introduced during the lifetime of the
1.8.x versions.

We also started automating more of our internal workflows. It doesn’t make
much sense to mention that here, because it’s nothing you can see in the game
and it only makes our lives easier as developers, but for the sake of having a
slighly longer post this week I decided to keep it in here.

Notable changes:

  * Fixed some bugs
  * Tweaked boats a bit more
  * Hidden a small recipe change
  * Endermites or now 2.44% more happy than before, especially in boats

Bugs fixed in this snapshot:

  * [REDACTED]

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “ _New Profile_ ” button.
Call it “snapshots” and check the box saying “ _Enable experimental
development snapshots_ ” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can
select it in the dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up
your world first or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new
profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

[Minecraft server
jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/16w05b/server/9fdf8a90055b3cf689265cc30bdd9d1faf2c743c/server.jar)


