# 16w20a
Published on May 18, 2016

The polar bears are here.

And many more new and exciting features are also included in the first
snapshot of Minecraft 1.10.

Most of the changes and new features are not 100% finalized and we are going
to improve and balance them in the upcoming snapshots. We are looking forward
to read about your experiences on Reddit or watch you playing the snapshot on
Twitch or Youtube.

Reporting bugs on our bugtracker is the best way to tell us about things that
are horribly broken or even crash your game. Please make sure the issue is not
already reported before posting a new ticket.

The bug tracker has a “search” function that will help you to figure out if
there’s already a ticket about the problem you want to report.

Notable changes:

  * Polar bears in cold biomes, grown ups and cubs
  * Structure blocks for map makers and another new technical block to work with them
  * Technically they are not fossils, but that’s what we call one of the new features
  * New auto-jump feature, can be turned on and off in the game settings
  * Some new blocks in the nether, one of them extremely hot
  * A new hostile enemy in hot and dry areas
  * Some relatively broken uses of relative coordinates are fixes and should work relatively well now
  * Use of absolute coordinates is absolutely identical to how it worked in older versions of Minecraft
  * Endermen started invading another dimension, no idea what they are up to
  * Changed abandoned mineshafts in mesa biomes, there seems to be something shiny inside

Bugs fixed in 16w20a:

  * [Bug [MC-89848](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-89848)] - playsound/sound engine pitch algorithm isn’t working properly

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “ _New Profile_ ” button.
Call it “snapshots” and check the box saying “ _Enable experimental
development snapshots_ ” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can
select it in the dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up
your world first or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new
profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

[Minecraft server
jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/16w20a/server/2cbcbd735cb48c8cc2bebb7b43c8afa69a923269/server.jar)


