# 16w39a
Published on Sep 25, 2016

**Update: Minecraft snapshot 16w39c has been released!**

Seven years and counting, Minecraft is still growing and expanding. We thought
it is about time we add something to guide you through the vastness of the
endless overworlds. Introducing the Exploration Update!

Among your villager friends, you will now find the Cartographer residing in
the library. Spend your hard-earned emeralds to obtain maps leading you to
adventurous locations such as the Ocean Monument and the new Woodland Mansion.

This procedurally generated dungeon is the home of the villager’s outcast
cousins, the Illagers. This insidious and spooky crowd will not tolerate any
trespassers in their home, so you should expect a fight when you venture there
for the mansion’s treasure.

The Exploration Update also brings the Shulker Box, an inventory-expanding
chest originating from The End itself. This box’s primary property is to keep
items inside of itself even when the box is knocked down. This behavior is
something that contraption tinkerers should find useful as well, as it enables
large amounts of items to be transported in a predictable manner.

Speaking of transporting items, Minecraft now hosts llamas! The llamas live in
the mountains and can be equipped with chests to carry items for you. Well-
mannered as they are, they will also politely form caravans whenever you lead
one in your travels.

As always there are many other neat additions in this update, and here is the
intentionally noninformative change log:

  * Added cursed enchantments
  * Added the Observer block
  * Added escape portals in The End
  * Added the Shulker Shell and Shulker Box
  * Added exploration maps
  * Added the Woodland Mansion
  * Added Illagers, and the Vex
  * Added Llamas
  * New command: /locate
  * Removed Herobrine

_Bugs fixed in 16w39c:_

  * [Bug [MC-7809](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-7809)] - Aiming at the very bottom of a side of an upper slab/stair places slabs/stairs right-side up in multiplayer
  * [Bug [MC-67665](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-67665)] - Mouse click position always lags a few frames behind the crosshair
  * [Bug [MC-72962](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-72962)] - The Empty Map texture is one pixel lower than the Map/Paper texture
  * [Bug [MC-82841](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-82841)] - Arrows are bright despite being in darkness
  * [Bug [MC-90074](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-90074)] - Boat from dispenser is facing wrong direction (towards dispenser instead of the same way as dispenser)
  * [Bug [MC-93651](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-93651)] - No placement sound when placing blocks on fence
  * [Bug [MC-101372](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-101372)] - Item pickup sound plays twice when picking up an item
  * [Bug [MC-106557](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-106557)] - Shulker cannot correctly spawn to the block(The side/below) by use spawn egg
  * [Bug [MC-107148](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107148)] - Elytra not rendering texture correctly
  * [Bug [MC-107291](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107291)] - Potion entity is marked as invalid, when you throw potions and press button Q
  * [Bug [MC-107522](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107522)] - Arrows floating, when the shulker box is opened and then closed
  * [Bug [MC-107803](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107803)] - Invalid Variant value for llama does not default to 0 causing invisible llama
  * [Bug [MC-107817](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107817)] - Inconsistency: Silver shulker box, not light gray
  * [Bug [MC-107820](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107820)] - Leftover-“test.png” from shulker boxes in 16w39b\assets\minecraft
  * [Bug [MC-107823](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107823)] - Trajectory of ranged items altered when shooting at Shulker Boxes
  * [Bug [MC-107828](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107828)] - stat.useItem.minecraft.totem doesn’t work
  * [Bug [MC-107830](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107830)] - Observer side texture upside down
  * [Bug [MC-107843](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107843)] - Totem consumed all stack when used in offhand
  * [Bug [MC-107877](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107877)] - Dispenser placing a Shulker Box does not make the fail sound if the dispenser fails

_Bugs fixed in 16w39b:_

  * [Bug [MC-105513](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-105513)] - Loading Structures that contain no blocks ignores entities
  * [Bug [MC-106571](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-106571)] - Cannot tab-complete “flush” with the save-all command
  * [Bug [MC-106573](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-106573)] - “flush” argument in save-all not included in /help save-all
  * [Bug [MC-107221](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107221)] - Can’t breed Donkeys with Horses, making Mules unobtainable
  * [Bug [MC-107379](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107379)] - Spawn Eggs of new Mobs are not sorted alphabetically in Creative Inventory
  * [Bug [MC-107383](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107383)] - Coloured shulker boxes give off purple particles when being broken.
  * [Bug [MC-107385](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107385)] - Shulker Box has no texture on bottom when opened
  * [Bug [MC-107388](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107388)] - Shulker boxes don’t retain custom names when placed or broken
  * [Bug [MC-107391](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107391)] - Shulker boxes don’t get color applied when crafting with a dye
  * [Bug [MC-107392](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107392)] - Inserting Items into a furnace crashes the client
  * [Bug [MC-107398](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107398)] - All colored shulkers boxes named have only “Shulker Box” that would named colors like example: “Blue Shulker Box”
  * [Bug [MC-107400](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107400)] - Looting Enchant does not affect Llama Leather drops
  * [Bug [MC-107405](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107405)] - Player is unable to put plants (saplings, flowers, ferns) into flower pots
  * [Bug [MC-107423](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107423)] - When placing a coloured shulker box it’s purple for a fraction of a second
  * [Bug [MC-107425](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107425)] - Llamas/horses don’t show hearts when tamed
  * [Bug [MC-107427](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107427)] - Shulker Box can only be accessed by 1 player at the same time (WaI?)
  * [Bug [MC-107458](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107458)] - You can place Shulker Boxes underneath yourself
  * [Bug [MC-107469](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107469)] - Silent Tag does not affect Evocation Fangs
  * [Bug [MC-107479](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107479)] - Shulker box interactions doesn’t appear in the Statistics like other interactions.
  * [Bug [MC-107486](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107486)] - Villagers don’t run away from Illagers
  * [Bug [MC-107498](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107498)] - Uninteded capital “LLama” in subtitles
  * [Bug [MC-107501](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107501)] - Crash when trying to place shulker box within the same block as a sign or piston extensions
  * [Bug [MC-107510](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107510)] - Curse of Binding doesn’t affect mobs wearing items.
  * [Bug [MC-107528](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107528)] - Can only craft Shulker Boxes in the middle column of a crafting table
  * [Bug [MC-107536](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107536)] - Llamas do not save their inventory NBT data, causing java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException crash
  * [Bug [MC-107573](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107573)] - Sound event name of shulker box is miscategorised as entity, instead of block.
  * [Bug [MC-107586](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107586)] - Items with Curse of Vanishing are dropped by mobs that hold them sometimes.
  * [Bug [MC-107598](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107598)] - Shulker box’s GUI elements are slightly offset in comparison to chest’s
  * [Bug [MC-107608](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107608)] - Pick Block on placed Shulker Boxes gives different item than found in the creative inventory
  * [Bug [MC-107612](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107612)] - Small shulker texture errors
  * [Bug [MC-107614](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107614)] - Llamas have unused saddle slot
  * [Bug [MC-107643](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107643)] - Wolf is indecisive around llamas while hostile toward the llama.
  * [Bug [MC-107661](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107661)] - Shulker Boxes always dispensed vertically
  * [Bug [MC-107683](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107683)] - Llama causes crash when breeding if “Strength” is 0
  * [Bug [MC-107746](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107746)] - Totem consumed all stack when used

_Bugs fixed in 16w39a:_

  * [Bug [MC-58677](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-58677)] - GUI has inconsistent capitalization
  * [Bug [MC-92139](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-92139)] - Too many tipped arrows in the “Combat” section of the creative inventory
  * [Bug [MC-106077](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-106077)] - Missing sound files (largeblast1.ogg / largeblast_far1.ogg) because of CamelCase in 1.11.json
  * [Bug [MC-107154](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107154)] - Junk potion from fishing is uncraftable potion
  * [Bug [MC-107165](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107165)] - Brewing icon displays the incorrect color in Creative inventory tab
  * [Bug [MC-107166](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107166)] - Experience bottles produce pink particles.
  * [Bug [MC-107170](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107170)] - writeString method of PacketBuffer is not creating correct exception text
  * [Bug [MC-107284](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107284)] - disabling shields with axes doesn’t work
  * [Bug [MC-107320](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-107320)] - Sort order of command autocomplete confusing

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can’t
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the “ _New Profile_ ” button.
Call it “snapshots” and check the box saying “ _Enable experimental
development snapshots_ ” and save. To switch to the normal version, you can
select it in the dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up
your world first or run the game on in a different folder (See the “new
profile” dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

[Minecraft server
jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/16w39c/server/df13c6cbf5fc735896b22f56b1f8940dd11a3b5f/server.jar)


