# 17w06a
Published on 2017-02-08

Welcome to the first Minecraft 1.12 snapshot! We anticipate to do many more
snapshots in the upcoming months, as we will continue adding more features and
make major improvements to the core game itself. This particular snapshot
brings you a bunch of new blocks and a very useful addition to Creative Mode.
Please remember to make backups of your worlds before loading them in any of
the snapshots. An even better option is to always create a new world when
checking out the new features!

### Changes in snapshot 17w06a

  * Save toolbars in Creative Mode with Ctrl+Slotkey and load them with Shift+Slotkey
  * Added colored Concrete blocks
  * Added colored Concrete Powder blocks
  * Added colored Glazed Terracotta blocks
  * Updated the base color palette of Minecraft (affects things such as Banners and Sheep)
  * Updated textures for Wool blocks

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com/projects/MC/issues). If nobody
reports a bug, we can't fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and press the _" New Profile"_ button.
Call it "snapshots" and check the box saying _" Enable experimental
development snapshots"_ and save. To switch to the normal version, you can
select it in the dropdown at the bottom left corner of the launcher. Back up
your world first or run the game on in a different folder (See the "new
profile" dialog).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/17w06a/server/37441cab126ee2a4f292c9bf488c9dd800cff841/server.jar)


