# 17w45a
Published on 2017-11-08

In 1.13 we are completely redesigning the command system to be easier to use,
faster to run, and allow for much cooler things than were possible before.
Todays snapshot introduces the first kinda-workable build of that command
system!

# CHANGES IN 17W45A

  * New horse model! Hurrah!
  * Lots of bug fixes! Especially crash fixes on Mac OS.
  * New command library! Details below.
  * Added new GUI scaling options! 4k users rejoice, you can see a few more pixels now ;)

# CHANGES IN 17W45B

  * Merged /entitydata and /blockdata into /data
  * Reworked /execute store
  * Made command-function loading much faster
  * Made /execute if <..> return values if used on their own
  * Fixed bug [MC-121623](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121623) \- "Cannot use namespace in type= for selectors"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121627](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121627) \- "@s fails to build valid commands"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121635](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121635) \- "Incorrect failed /fill result message"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121637](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121637) \- "Incorrect result message when teleporting a single entity"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121642](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121642) \- ""Optional" commands following conditional execute chain succeed/fail strangely"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121650](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121650) \- "Tab auto-completion is case-sensitive"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121655](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121655) \- "Incorrect message when teleporting single entity"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121656](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121656) \- "Some creative commands are available by a survival player with cheats disabled"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121660](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121660) \- "distance argument can't find players with @a, @p or @e[type=player]"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121663](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121663) \- "Gamerules are copying from other worlds"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121674](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121674) \- "Execute doesn't work in Functions"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121683](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121683) \- "-= isn't a valid operation in scoreboard players operation"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121686](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121686) \- "Execute unless always fails on entities"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121691](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121691) \- "/teleport with rotation does not work"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121695](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121695) \- "Tellraw only supports 1 target"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121711](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121711) \- "@a or @s doesn't include dead player"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121727](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121727) \- "execute on multiple entites cancels, once one command fails"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121728](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121728) \- "The order, in which execute runs the command for each entity, is in reverse"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121749](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121749) \- "/entitydata does not apply modified NBT data"
  * Fixed bug [MC-121765](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121765) \- "Removing n scoreboard points adds them instead"

# BUG FIXES

  * [MC-121281](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121281) \- Scrollbar in the creative and server menu isn't working with mouse
  * [MC-121282](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121282) \- Server Icons erased on loading multiplayer menu
  * [MC-121283](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121283) \- Underwater and in lava overlay is missing
  * [MC-121284](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121284) \- Resource pack and world folder buttons don't work
  * [MC-121288](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121288) \- Cinematic Camera doesn't work properly
  * [MC-121302](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121302) \- "Direct connect" button enabled/disabled at wrong times
  * [MC-121314](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121314) \- Video settings slider text "FS Resolution" doesn't fit
  * [MC-121328](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121328) \- GUI scales incorrectly
  * [MC-121329](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121329) \- Pressing "chat" key no longer selects search in creative inventory/recipe book
  * [MC-121334](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121334) \- [1-9] in creative inventory search tab sends additional keypress to search bar
  * [MC-121396](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121396) \- WASD keys in a weird order
  * [MC-121418](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121418) \- Crash when trying to paste non-string clipboard content
  * [MC-121419](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121419) \- Click and hover events are offset in chat
  * [MC-121421](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121421) \- Pressing enter in the name or seed field on the create world dialog no longer creates the world
  * [MC-121433](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121433) \- Non english letters are lowercase in controls setting, while English are upper.
  * [MC-121456](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121456) \- Chunks disappearing after switching windows in fullscreen mode
  * [MC-121468](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121468) \- Statistics can no longer be ordered by clicking icons
  * [MC-121517](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121517) \- Fullscreen button will not make game fullscreen
  * A lot of bugs related to commands because we rewrote the entire system ¯\ _(ツ)_ /¯

# COMMANDS

## CAVEATS

  * It doesn't work in multiplayer yet. You can type out commands as usual, you just won't get tabcompletions or any UI for it yet.
  * Tabcompletions of any kind are a work in progress, and only absolute basic values will be hinted.
  * It really isn't complete, and there are a lot of parts that just aren't implemented yet or might behave a little unexpectedly. Please feel free to report these to the bug tracker so we can keep track of them!
  * If we feel that it's too incomplete/broken (it really might be), we will revert it until it's had more development. This is a preview, it is not final.
  * Some changes might not make sense until a later snapshot, for example data values still technically exist right now but will be removed very soon.
  * The new commands are not translated in any way. They are designed to be easier to translate than the current engine, but it's not there yet.
  * The UI for typing out commands is a really really rough mockup. It will probably be super cool at some point.

## GENERAL

  * Most commands are even more case sensitive than before. Lowercase is preferable wherever possible.
  * For example, this is no longer allowed: /scoreboard ObJeCtIvEs ...
  * They will be so much more faster and efficient. Especially functions. Oh man.
  * Functions will be completely parsed & cached on load. This means if there's any command that isn't correct for whatever reason, you will know about it on load.
  * This means to check if a map works in 1.17.banana, you simple open your world in 1.17.banana. If there's errors, they'll be in your log. If there's no errors, it's probably fine!
  * Here's a list of every single executable command so-far: https://gist.github.com/Dinnerbone/943fbcd763c19be188ed6b72a12d7e65
  * It's very verbose, because each line is its own command. [optionals]and (conditionals|ors) are separated out.
  * ... is where another command is required
  * -> foo means an alias to foo
  * The new command library is called "Brigadier". That's not relevant in any way, I just really like the name.

## SPECIFIC COMMANDS

If a command isn't listed, it's probably because nothing exciting happened to
it and it works as it did before. These are only notable changes.

### /ADVANCEMENT

  * Removed /advancement test as it will be part of entity selectors

### /BLOCKDATA

  * Removed in favour of /data

### /CLEAR

  * The syntax of /clear has changed
  * /clear [<target>] [<item>] [<data>] [<count>] [<nbt>] -> /clear [<target>] [<item>] [<count>]
  * See the item argument type for more details

### /CLONE

  * The syntax of /clone has changed
  * /clone <x1 y1 z1> <x2 y2 z2> <xt yt zt> filtered [force|move|normal] [<block>] [<data>] -> /clone <x1 y1 z1> <x2 y2 z2> <xt yt zt> filtered [<block>] [force|move|normal]
  * /clone <x1 y1 z1> <x2 y2 z2> <xt yt zt> [replace|masked] [force|move|normal] [<block>] [<data>] -> /clone <x1 y1 z1> <x2 y2 z2> <xt yt zt> [replace|masked] [force|move|normal]
  * See the block argument type for more details

### /DATA

  * New command that replaces /entitydata and /blockdata
  * Has the following subcommands:
  * merge <target> <nbt> acts the same as /entitydata//blockdata used to. Merges new NBT onto the target.
  * get <target> prints the full data for the target
  * get <target> <path> [scale] returns the numeric value of a tag at the specified <path>, after multiplying with [scale] (default 1)
  * Data paths look like this: foo.bar[0]."A [crazy name]".baz
  * foo.bar means foo's child called bar
  * foo[0] means element 0 of foo
  * "quoted strings" may be used if a name of a key needs to be escaped

### /DEFAULTGAMEMODE, /GAMEMODE

  * Now only accepts string IDs, not shorthand or numeric
  * /gamemode 2 -> /gamemode adventure
  * /defaultgamemode sp -> /defaultgamemode spectator

### /DIFFICULTY

  * /difficulty <value> now only accepts string IDs, not shorthand or numeric
  * /difficulty 2 -> /difficulty normal
  * /difficulty p -> /difficulty peaceful
  * You can query for the current difficulty by using /difficultywithout any arguments

### /EFFECT

  * The syntax of /effect has changed, to avoid ambiguity.
  * /effect <entity> <effect> -> /effect give <entity> <effect>
  * /effect <entity> clear -> /effect clear <entity> [<effect>]
  * Giving an effect will now fail if it didn't actually do anything
  * Some mobs are immune (for example an ender dragon)
  * Stronger existing effects prevent new weaker ones

### /ENCHANT

  * Removed in favour of /modifyitem

### /ENTITYDATA

  * Removed in favour of /data

### /EXECUTE

  * /execute has been completely reworked
  * Modifier subcommands can change how the command is ran:
  * /execute as <entity> <chained command> executes a command using the entity <entity> (but doesn't change position)
  * /execute at <entity> <chained command> executes a command using the position of <entity> (but doesn't change entity)
  * /execute offset <x y z> <chained command> executes a command using the position of <x y z>
  * /execute align <axes> <chained command> executes a command after aligning the current position to the block grid (axes is any combination of x y and z)
  * Conditional subcommands can let you prevent the command from running at all:
  * /execute (if|unless) block <x y z> <block> <chained command> executes a command if (or unless) <x y z> matches <block>
  * /execute (if|unless) blocks <begin> <end> <destination> (all|masked) <chained command> executes a command if (or unless) the region between <start> and <end> matches <destination>
  * /execute (if|unless) entity <entity> <chained command>executes a command if (or unless) <entity> exists (returns 1 or more entities)
  * /execute (if|unless) score <target> <targetObjective> (<|<=|=|>=|>) <source> <sourceObjective> <chained command>executes a command if (or unless) <target>'s score matches <source>'s score
  * As replacement for /stats, a new subcommand store lets you store the result of a command somewhere:
  * /execute store (result|success) (score|entity|block) ...
  * result is the result of a command, which replaces these old stats: AffectedBlocks, AffectedEntities, AffectedItems, QueryResult
  * success is how many times the command was successful. This is usually 0 or 1, but if the command split up (for example as @a) then it may be more than 1. This replaces SuccessCount
  * The value will be stored when the full command has finished executing
  * If a command isn't successful (success is 0), result will always be set to 0
  * We will try to make it clear somewhere what the expected result of each command is
  * For store (result|success) score, the remaining syntax is: <name> <objective> <chained command>
  * The value is stored into the scoreboard under <name> and <objective>
  * The objective must exist, but unlike with /stats you don't need to set an initial value for <name>
  * For store (result|success) block, the remaining syntax is: <xyz> <path> (byte|double|float|int|long|short) <scale> <chained command>
  * The value is stored into the block at <xyz>, into the nbt tag at <path> after multiplying by <scale>
  * For store (result|success) entity, the remaining syntax is: <target> <path> (byte|double|float|int|long|short) <scale> <chained command>
  * The value is stored into the entity <target>, into the nbt tag at <path> after multiplying by <scale>
  * Does not work on players
  * You can chain all subcommands together
  * After every subcommand you need to write another subcommand
  * When you're done with chaining subcommands, run lets you write the actual command to be executed
  * /execute as somebody at somebody run say hi
  * Example of old commands:
  * /execute @e ~ ~ ~ detect ~ ~ ~ stone 0 say Stone! -> /execute as @e at @s if block ~ ~ ~ stone run say Stone!
  * /execute @e ~ ~ ~ detect ~ ~ ~ grass summon pig -> /execute at @e if block ~ ~ ~ grass run summon pig
  * /execute @e ~ ~ ~ say Hello! -> /execute as @e run say Hello!

### /EXPERIENCE

  * /xp is now an alias for /experience
  * Split up into 3 different subcommands
  * /experience add <players> <amount> [points|levels]
  * Adds <amount> of either points or levels to the target <players>(defaults to points)
  * Adding points can cause players to level up, as usual
  * Negative numbers are supported, to subtract points instead
  * Subtracting points can cause players to level down
  * /experience set <players> <amount> [points|levels]
  * Sets <amount> of either points or levels on the target <players>(defaults to points)
  * You cannot set more points than their current level allows
  * When changing levels, the points will stay at the same _percentage_ as the previous level
  * /experience query <player> (points|levels)
  * Returns either the number of points or levels on the given <player>

### /FILL

  * The syntax of /fill has changed
  * /fill <x y z> <xt yt zt> <block> <data> replace [<replaceBlock>] [<replaceData>] -> /fill <x y z> <xt yt zt> <block> replace [<filter>]
  * /fill <x y z> <xt yt zt> <block> [<data>] [destroy|hollow|keep|outline|replace] [<nbt>] -> /fill <x y z> <xt yt zt> <block> [destroy|hollow|keep|outline|replace]
  * See the block argument type for more details

### /FUNCTION

  * No longer has optional (if|unless) <entity> arguments.
  * This has been moved into /execute
  * /function foo if @e[tag=bar] -> /execute if entity @e[tag=bar] run function foo

### /GAMERULE

  * /gamerule no longer accepts unknown rules ("custom gamerules")
  * It was causing more problems than it was worth, with people mistyping rules and it looks official
  * It was very error-prone and difficult to use
  * You can use functions or scoreboards as replacements, with no loss of functionality (actually - more!)
  * Existing custom gamerules will just not be accessible. Only built-in rules will be available.
  * Values to /gamerule are now type checked (giving a string if it wants an int is a very obvious error)

### /GIVE

  * The syntax of /give has changed
  * /give <players> <item> [<count>] [<data>] [<nbt>] -> /give <players> <item> [<count>]
  * See the item argument type for more details

### /MODIFYITEM

  * This is a new command that replaces /enchant
  * We don't know how it looks yet.

### /REPLACEITEM

  * The syntax of /replaceitem has changed
  * /replaceitem block <pos> <slot> <item> [<count>] [<data>] [<nbt>] -> /replaceitem block <pos> <slot> <item> [<count>]
  * /replaceitem entity <target> <slot> <item> [<count>] [<data>] [<nbt>] -> /replaceitem entity <target> <slot> <item> [<count>]
  * See the item argument type for more details

### /SCOREBOARD

  * /scoreboard had [<dataTag>] removed from its commands, as they're no longer needed
  * See the entity selector argument type for more details
  * /scoreboard team is now /team
  * /scoreboard players tag is now /tag
  * /scoreboard players test is removed in favourite of entity selectors
  * There is a new /scoreboard players get <target> <objective>to query for specific scores

### /SETBLOCK

  * The syntax of /setblock has changed
  * /setblock <pos> <block> [<data>] [<mode>] [<nbt>] -> /setblock <pos> <block> [<mode>]
  * See the block argument type for more details

### /STATS

  * Removed. Now part of /execute
  * The new /execute one isn't a direct replacement, the behaviour has changed:
  * It's now per-command, instead of per-entity or per-block
  * There's only result and success, which covers all the old stat types

### /STOPSOUND

  * * can be used instead of source to stop all sounds with a certain name, across all sources

### /TESTFOR, /TESTFORBLOCK, /TESTFORBLOCKS

  * Removed. Now part of /execute

### /TOGGLEDOWNFALL

  * Removed. It was always used to stop the rain, then make you frustrated in a minute when it's raining again.
  * Use /weather

### /TP, /TELEPORT

  * /tp is now an alias of /teleport (much like /w, /msg and /tell)
  * Coordinates are now relative to the executor, as with all other commands
  * The syntax of /tp remains, but with the behaviour of /teleport

### /TRIGGER

  * /trigger <objective> is a new syntax as shortcut for /trigger <objective> add 1

### /WEATHER

  * If you don't specify a time, it now defaults to 5 minutes (previously random)

## COMMAND BLOCKS

  * The output signal of a command block used to be it's "success count", but now it's "result"

# ARGUMENT TYPES

## ENTITY SELECTORS (IE @E[..])

  * More error handling has been introduced to help you find potential bugs. Things like limit=0, level=-10, gamemode=purple aren't allowed because it makes no sense.
  * There's no longer a "min" and "max" separate values, we instead support ranges
  * level=10 is level 10
  * level=10..12 is level 10, 11 or 12
  * level=5.. is anything level 5 or above
  * level=..15 is anything level 15 or below
  * x & z are no longer center-corrected (x=0 isn't x=0.5anymore). They now support doubles, so use x=0.5 if that's what you wanted.
  * gamemode (previously m) no longer allows numerical or shorthand IDs, which were deprecated years ago.
  * The arcane shorthand names have been renamed
  * m -> gamemode
  * l or lm -> level
  * r or rm -> distance
  * rx or rxm -> x_rotation
  * ry or rym -> y_rotation
  * c -> limit
  * limit (was c) No longer allows negative values, instead use sort=furthest
  * x, y, z, distance (was r), x_rotation (was rx) and y_rotation (was ry) are now doubles and allow values like 12.34
  * Allow spaces! @e[name="Hello World"]
  * Supports NBT! @e[nbt={Cool:1b},nbt=!{Uncool:1b}]
  * Where sensible, repeat-arguments are allowed
  * tag=foo,tag=bar,tag=!baz matches someone with foo, barand not baz
  * type=!cow,type=!chicken matches something that isn't a cow and isn't a chicken
  * type=cow,type=chicken isn't allowed, because something cannot both be [a cow and chicken](http://i.imgur.com/gi4bps1.gif)
  * You can specify the sorting
  * sort=nearest is the old default, sorting by distance (default for @p)
  * sort=furthest is the reverse of that (previously you'd use c=-5for this)
  * sort=random for random sorting (default for @r)
  * sort=arbitrary is a new option to not sort the result (default for @e, @a)
  * Specifying scores now looks like scores={foo=1,bar=1..5}
  * You can test for advancements with advancements={foo=true,bar=false,custom:something={criterion=true}}
  * true for "they completed the advancement", false for "they have not completed the advancement"
  * Alternatively, pass a block of specific criteria to test for (again, true/false)

## BLOCKS

  * Wherever a block, data and optionally nbt was required, it's now a single "block" argument that looks like this:
  * stone
  * minecraft:redstone_wire[power=15,north=up,south=side]
  * minecraft:jukebox{RecordItem:{...}}
  * minecraft:furnace[facing=north]{BurnTime:200}
  * ID is required (though just as before, if namespace isn't set it defaults to minecraft:)
  * States are inside [], comma-separated and must be properties/values supported by the blocks. They are optional.
  * minecraft:stone[doesntexist=purpleberry] is a syntax error, because stone doesn't have doesntexist
  * minecraft:redstone_wire[power=tuesday] is a syntax error, because redstone_wire's power is a number between 0 and 15
  * NBT tag is inside {}, and works just like you'd expect. It's optional.
  * In the context of "conditions"/testing for blocks, only the states you provided will be tested.
  * If you test redstone_wire[power=15], it only checks power but ignores other states such as north.
  * In the context of setting blocks, any states you provided will be set but anything missed out will default depending on the block.
  * If you set redstone_wire[power=15], it will set power to 15 but north will be a default value (in this case, set to none)
  * There is no such thing as **block data value** in 1.13. It's either a different blocks, or a state.

## ITEMS

  * Wherever an item and optionally nbt was required, it's now a single "item" argument that looks like this:
  * stone
  * minecraft:stick{display:{Name:"Stick of Untruths"}}
  * ID is required (though just as before, if namespace isn't set it defaults to minecraft:)
  * NBT tag is inside {}, and works just like you'd expect. It's optional.
  * There is no such thing as **item data value** or i **tem damage value** in 1.13
  * Damage, where applicable, is being moved into nbt
  * Any other information is either a separate item or a property in nbt

# Install the snapshot

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can't
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and go to the "launch options" tab. Check
the box saying _" Enable snapshots"_ and save. To switch between the snapshot
and normal version, you can find a new dropdow menu next to the "Play" button.
Back up your world first or run the game on in a different folder (In the
"launch options" page).

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/17w45b/server/eec0c6c49b1066b648f39e1dcef8c76510a794dc/server.jar)


