# 17w50a
Published on 2017-12-11

It's almost time for the holidays, so this week is going to be the last week
for snapshots this year. Therefore, let's cram as many snapshots as we can
into this week!

#  Changes in 17w50a

  * Added new local coordinate type in commands using ^
  * Tags can now include other Tags (of the same type)
  * When overriding a tag, you can choose to replace instead of append
  * Things crash a little less easily than before. A little.
  * Added ████████████████████ (and of course ███████████)
  * Fixed bug [MC-2340](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-2340) \- Redstone torches schedule updates when they should not, causing unreliable timings.
  * Fixed bug [MC-5694](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-5694) \- High efficiency tools / fast mining destroys some blocks client-side only
  * Fixed bug [MC-93468](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-93468) \- Water and lava flow affected by random ticks
  * Fixed bug [MC-120709](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-120709) \- Lava and water updates do not resolve completely when random ticking is disabled
  * Fixed bug [MC-121863](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121863) \- x_rotation seems to behave like y_rotation
  * Fixed bug [MC-122154](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122154) \- Sometimes beds take strange shapes when placed
  * Fixed bug [MC-122159](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122159) \- Container inventory changes don't update nearby comparators
  * Fixed bug [MC-122317](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122317) \- Game crashes when a colon is entered after a slash or another colon in commands
  * Fixed bug [MC-122403](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122403) \- Detecting a 2 redstone tick repeater with an observer creates 2 pulses
  * Fixed bug [MC-122591](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122591) \- OS locale is used for coordinate tab-completion
  * Fixed bug [MC-122791](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122791) \- Double blocks break after replacing Tall Grass/Large Fern
  * Fixed bug [MC-122819](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122819) \- Changes to the hitbox of hoppers makes them unable to pick up items
  * Fixed bug [MC-122899](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122899) \- Falling blocks top/bottom texture change rotation as they fall
  * Fixed bug [MC-122927](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122927) \- Cullface on the tops and bottoms of glass panes aren't triggered by other glass panes on top or below.
  * Fixed bug [MC-122987](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-122987) \- Pistons lose piston head when pushing the block which powers it
  * Fixed bug [MC-123001](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123001) \- Custom tags can match air if they contain an invalid block name
  * Fixed bug [MC-123004](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123004) \- Random rotation for Blocks like sand, concrete powder, grass and custom block models doesn't work properly
  * Fixed bug [MC-123014](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123014) \- Invalid function tags prevent world from loading
  * Fixed bug [MC-123032](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123032) \- Tags overwrite, don't append
  * Fixed bug [MC-123050](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123050) \- The bed can be put in water, because of what it breaks and does not drop
  * Fixed bug [MC-123051](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123051) \- Cactus can be placed under water
  * Fixed bug [MC-123054](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123054) \- Carpets don't drop their item when pushed onto air

\- Fixed bug [MC-123089](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123089) \-
stone_button/iron_door is not included in

# buttons/doors

  * Fixed bug [MC-123112](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123112) \- The top of walls are transparent when there is a skull above

#  Tags

##  Replace vs append

By default all tags append if another data pack created the tag. For example,
if you try to override minecraft:wool you'll actually add to the list instead
of replace it. If you add "replace": true to your tag definition, we will
ignore the previous data pack and only your definition applies.

##  Referencing other tags

You can add

# foo:bar in a tag value list to reference another tag called foo:bar. This
can go as deep as you like, but if you end up trying to reference yourself
then we will not load it.

You can only reference tags of the same type, so a block tag can't include a
function tag.

#  Local coordinates

When specifying coordinates in a command, you can now use ^ to specify local
coordinates instead of world coordinates. The syntax is: ^left ^up ^forwards,
where left/up/forwards is the amount of blocks in the specified direction.

For example, this is the block right in front of a players face: ^ ^1.62 ^1
(1.62 blocks up, where is where the camera is, and 1 block forwards)

#  Install the snapshot

Please report any and all bugs you find in Minecraft to
[bugs.mojang.com](https://bugs.mojang.com). If nobody reports a bug, we can't
fix it!

To get snapshots, open your launcher and go to the "launch options" tab. Check
the box saying _" Enable snapshots"_ and save. To switch between the snapshot
and normal version, you can find a new dropdow menu next to the "Play" button.
Back up your world first or run the game on in a different folder (In the
"launch options" page).

 **Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/17w50a/server/670c67a4dfbd1070a9be629124ddd8aac8d9b9d9/server.jar)

Report bugs here:

  * [Minecraft issue tracker](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC)!

[ ![Author
image](/content/dam/archive/d253f6cc9bc41748d2a4143064c9102d-Mojang_Avatars_302x170px_0013_Nathan_Avatar00.png)
]()

Written by

    Nathan Adams
Published

    

SHARE THIS STORY

  * [ ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.minecraft.net%2Fen-us%2Farticle%2Fminecraft-snapshot-17w50a)
  * [ ](https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.minecraft.net%2Fen-us%2Farticle%2Fminecraft-snapshot-17w50a)
  * [ ](https://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.minecraft.net%2Fen-us%2Farticle%2Fminecraft-snapshot-17w50a)

  * [ALL](javascript:;)
  * [Culture](javascript:;)
  * [Merch](javascript:;)
  * [Insider](javascript:;)
  * [News](javascript:;)

Block...Block...Block...

Load more

[ ](https://mojang.com?ref=ft)

[Mojang](https://mojang.com) (C) 2009-2019. "Minecraft" is a trademark of
Mojang Synergies AB

  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://account.mojang.com/terms?ref=ft)
  * [ Brand and Assets Guidelines ](https://account.mojang.com/terms?ref=ft#brand)

  * [English](/en-us/)
  * [Dansk](/da-dk/)
  * [Deutsch](/de-de/)
  * [Español](/es-es/)
  * [Español (México)](/es-mx/)
  * [Suomi](/fi-fi/)
  * [Français (Canada)](/fr-ca/)
  * [Français](/fr-fr/)
  * [Italiano](/it-it/)
  * [日本語](/ja-jp/)
  * [한국어](/ko-kr/)
  * [Norsk (Bokmål)](/nb-no/)
  * [Nederlands](/nl-nl/)
  * [Polski](/pl-pl/)
  * [Português Brasileiro](/pt-br/)
  * [Português](/pt-pt/)
  * [Русский](/ru-ru/)
  * [Svenska](/sv-se/)
  * [Türkiye](/tr-tr/)
  * [简体中文](/zh-hans/)
  * [繁體中文](/zh-hant/)

English

  * [Privacy and cookies](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=521839)
  * [Terms of use](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=206977)
  * [Trademarks](http://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  * [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  * (C) 2019 Microsoft

[ ](http://www.microsoft.com/)


