# 18w06a
Published on 2018-02-09

Todays snapshot brings in a complete rewrite of how world generation works
behind the scenes, so that we can do some really cool things with it in the
future & speed it up dramatically. It may be quite unstable in this first
snapshot though, so as always: **do not open worlds you care about in a
snapshot without having a backup first**. We can almost guarantee that any
world opened in this snapshot will not work in the full 1.13 release.

#  Changes in 18w06a

  * Re-added /enchant command
  * Added a recipe book for the furnace
  * Rewrote the world generation system
  * Added command suggestions for entity selectors
  * Allow whitespaces in entity selectors & blockstate arguments
  * Added new item & block tags

##  Furnace recipe book

Now there's a recipe book for the furnace! Exactly like the existing crafting
recipe books, you can unlock recipes as you play through the game and they
will automatically appear in your recipe book for smelting. Mapmakers can
customize the recipes with data packs, which allows them to add or completely
change furnace recipes. "Fuel", the items that can be burned in a furnace, is
not included in this and is still somewhat hardcoded currently.

##  World generation

We've spent the last few years (yes, years) rewriting the world generator
completely from the ground up, and this snapshot finally has the first version
that we have some kind of confidence in. It may not be much faster at first,
but that's because we're playing it safe and want to just achieve "it works"
before "it's fast". It might still be unstable, too, so watch out for that.
It's the very first snapshot with it in, after all!

##  Customized Worlds

... don't work in this snapshot. Sorry. We have plans to re-add them in a much
more extendible way, but unfortunately we were not able to have that ready
yet. You will be unable to open any world of type "customized" in this
snapshot, it will tell you to revert to an old version to play in those
worlds.

##  /enchant vs /modifyitem

It's back how it was. We have shelved the /modifyitem idea that was supposed
to replace /enchant and we will look into that again in a future update.

##  Fixed bugs

  * [MC-77488](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-77488) \- TAB player list sorts player names based on ASCII values instead of alphabetically
  * [MC-121641](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121641) \- Impossible selector combinations don't fail to build
  * [MC-121644](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121644) \- Recipe book tab sound plays twice
  * [MC-121811](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121811) \- NBT path parser might be too lenient
  * [MC-121901](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-121901) \- Game crashes when there is closing square bracket without opening in command
  * [MC-123482](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-123482) \- The 'paintings.json' recipe file does not use the 'minecraft:wool' tag
  * [MC-124372](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-124372) \- Wrong/weird sorting order in tab-completion
  * [MC-124635](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-124635) \- Cycling through tab suggestions starts at value after highlighted value even if highlighted value differs from currently chosen value
  * [MC-124649](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-124649) \- Nether portals can no longer be activated from the side
  * [MC-124681](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-124681) \- Tab suggestion erroneously suggests second closing square bracket on entity selectors
  * [MC-124683](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-124683) \- Tab suggestion box for entity selector closing square bracket misaligned in certain situations
  * [MC-124684](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-124684) \- Tab suggestion box for entity selectors don't disappear when leaving the argument in an invalid state and beginning the next argument
  * [MC-124695](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-124695) \- Flint and steel in a dispenser loses durability when not igniting

#  Get the snapshot

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/18w06a/server/4e47158fd42d966884a7ffb7440b35d86c038049/server.jar)

Report bugs here:

  * [Minecraft issue tracker](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC)!

[ ![Author
image](/content/dam/archive/d253f6cc9bc41748d2a4143064c9102d-Mojang_Avatars_302x170px_0013_Nathan_Avatar00.png)
]()

Written by

    Nathan Adams
Published

    

SHARE THIS STORY

  * [ ](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.minecraft.net%2Fen-us%2Farticle%2Fminecraft-snapshot-18w06a)
  * [ ](https://twitter.com/home?status=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.minecraft.net%2Fen-us%2Farticle%2Fminecraft-snapshot-18w06a)
  * [ ](https://www.reddit.com/submit?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.minecraft.net%2Fen-us%2Farticle%2Fminecraft-snapshot-18w06a)

  * [ALL](javascript:;)
  * [Culture](javascript:;)
  * [Merch](javascript:;)
  * [Insider](javascript:;)
  * [News](javascript:;)

Block...Block...Block...

Load more

[ ](https://mojang.com?ref=ft)

[Mojang](https://mojang.com) (C) 2009-2019. "Minecraft" is a trademark of
Mojang Synergies AB

  * [ Terms and Conditions ](https://account.mojang.com/terms?ref=ft)
  * [ Brand and Assets Guidelines ](https://account.mojang.com/terms?ref=ft#brand)

  * [English](/en-us/)
  * [Dansk](/da-dk/)
  * [Deutsch](/de-de/)
  * [Español](/es-es/)
  * [Español (México)](/es-mx/)
  * [Suomi](/fi-fi/)
  * [Français (Canada)](/fr-ca/)
  * [Français](/fr-fr/)
  * [Italiano](/it-it/)
  * [日本語](/ja-jp/)
  * [한국어](/ko-kr/)
  * [Norsk (Bokmål)](/nb-no/)
  * [Nederlands](/nl-nl/)
  * [Polski](/pl-pl/)
  * [Português Brasileiro](/pt-br/)
  * [Português](/pt-pt/)
  * [Русский](/ru-ru/)
  * [Svenska](/sv-se/)
  * [Türkiye](/tr-tr/)
  * [简体中文](/zh-hans/)
  * [繁體中文](/zh-hant/)

English

  * [Privacy and cookies](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=521839)
  * [Terms of use](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=206977)
  * [Trademarks](http://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  * [About our ads](http://choice.microsoft.com/)
  * (C) 2019 Microsoft

[ ](http://www.microsoft.com/)


