# 18w09a
Published on 2018-03-01

We're currently battling winter here in the office, but we managed to sneak
out this small snapshot a little later than usual.

#  Changes in 18w09a

  * Added underwater ruins!
  * Added new coral blocks!
  * Phantoms no longer spawn in the end
  * Phantoms despawn in the daytime
  * Optimized particle rendering slightly

##  Underwater ruins

We've ruined the game. Again.

  * Come in many different shapes and sizes!
  * Cold ruins can be found in cold, frozen, ocean biomes - regardless of depth
  * Warm ruins can be found in warm, lukewarm, and deep lukewarm biomes
  * Can generate alone or in a big ruined village
  * You can also sometimes find them slightly underground or slightly above sealevel
  * They can contain mysterious treasures! So mysterious that we haven't even added the real treasure yet.
  * A few more things to come in a future snapshot...

##  Coral

Pretty blocks! Or should they be mobs? I'm not entirely sure.

  * Comes in 5 colors: blue, pink, purple, red, yellow
  * Requires water to stay alive
  * If it dies, it dies. Sorry.
  * Currently only obtainable in the creative inventory
  * World generation to come in a future snapshot...

##  Fixed bugs in 18w09a

  * [MC-118324](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-118324) \- One of magenta dye recipes is unlocked via getting Ink Sac
  * [MC-118416](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-118416) \- Recipe for bowl not unlocked until bowl or mushrooms are obtained
  * [MC-126111](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126111) \- Furnaces don't award recipes or experience when output is taken after a reload
  * [MC-126150](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126150) \- Furnaces don't account for multiple recipes with the same output when giving experience and smelting recipes

#  Get the snapshot

To install the snapshot, open up the [Minecraft Launcher](/download) and
enable snapshots in the "Launch Options" tab.

 **Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/18w09a/server/57dd2fe4a2fdb6e846b978e77442465d2ea27f43/server.jar)


