# 18w11a
Published on 2018-03-13

It's a super sneaky snapshot day! The Minecraft Java team is travelling to GDC
soon, so this will be the last snapshot for a couple of weeks.

#  Changes in 18w11a

  * Added shipwrecks!
  * Added a new hostile mob: The Drowned!
  * Added coral fans!
  * Added F3+C to copy your current location to clipboard

##  Coral fans

We were big fans of coral, so we couldn't resist.

  * Doesn't spawn naturally yet
  * You can place it on the side of coral!

##  Drowned

They're called "drowned" for a reason!

  * Spawn in all oceans! And rivers too!
  * Zombies will also become drowned after, well, drowning
  * Drowned can spawn with tridents, allowing you to get them in survival
  * Their loot isn't final - there's a super secret item coming soon
  * They can swim but they prefer to walk
  * Gurgle.
  * All drowned have a melee attack, and ones with tridents have a ranged attack
  * Like zombies, drowned don't really like turtles that much

##  Shipwrecks

  * Can be found in oceans and beaches
  * Has 3 different type of loot depending on the ship!
  * May spawn with some air pockets, that's a known bug. Sorry!

#  Get the snapshot

To install the snapshot, open up the [Minecraft Launcher](/download) and
enable snapshots in the "Launch Options" tab.

 **Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/18w11a/server/4286b7cbc4709c8f61c93a77b42c70918376cac3/server.jar)


