# 18w10a
Published on 2018-03-06

Every day is a snapshot day if you try hard enough. We're travelling to GDC
soon so we're going to try to push out as many snapshots this week as we can.

#  Changes in 18w10a

  * Added buried treasure
  * Added tropical fish
  * Added underwater ambience sounds
  * Added ability to put markers on maps
  * Added coral plants
  * Changed phantom model and texture
  * Changes to phantom behaviour
  * Changed coral texture
  * Underwater visibility now changes per biome

#  Changes in 18w10b

  * Added dead coral for each coral variant
  * Added a non-dyed shulker box (and made the purple shulker box purple)
  * Added more underwater ambience sounds
  * Added tropical fish sounds

#  Changes in 18w10c

  * Phantoms are now considered undead
  * New water physics! Kinda.

#  Changes in 18w10d

  * Allow more blocks to have water in them
  * Water no longer goes through solid faces
  * Coral now generates naturally
  * Big optimization to how clouds are rendered
  * Phantoms now burn in sunlight
  * You can now undye shulker boxes in a cauldron

##  Water physics

Oops, we spilled a bit.

  * You can place water in the following blocks: stairs, slabs, fences, walls, iron bars, glass panes, chests, trap doors, ladders, signs
  * Water can flow out these blocks, but can not flow into them
  * When full of water, they will count as water blocks for all gameplay (such as swimming)
  * This isn't final and more blocks may contain water in the future
  * Water will not flow through solid faces (such as backs of stairs)
  * We have removed the blocks flowing_water and flowing_lava
  * We have removed the block tags water_hacked and waterlogged
  * All of the above blocks now have a state waterlogged
  * Blocks such as bubble column or kelp will always count as a water source

##  Buried Treasure

We found this cool stuff! Let's hide it.

  * Can be found... somewhere?
  * Maps found in Underwater Ruins can lead you to them
  * Will contain a very cool treasure... which isn't added yet

##  Tropical Fish

We found nemo! And all his friends!

  * They come in many colours!
  * They come in many patterns!
  * Like other fish, you can catch them up in a bucket
  * You can find them in warm and lukewarm oceans

##  Map markers

You are here. Or there. I'm not sure, it's somewhere here.

  * Right click on a banner with a map to add it to the map
  * Right click on the same banner again to remove it
  * That map will show the colour of the banner at that spot
  * Named banners will show their name on the map too
  * If a banner is destroyed, it'll disappear when you get close and are holding the map

##  Phantom

"Less derpy" \- Jeb

  * Now despawn during the day
  * No longer spawn in The End
  * They have a new model! And texture! Pretty neat.

##  Fixed bugs in 18w10d

  * [MC-126912](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126912) \- Flowing water can create source blocks
  * [MC-126914](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126914) \- Sponge deletes waterlogged blocks
  * [MC-126920](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126920) \- Water does not flow down blocks properly
  * [MC-126927](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126927) \- Waterlogged water goes through Stairs
  * [MC-126936](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126936) \- Fishing bobber sinking as soon as it is cast
  * [MC-126944](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-126944) \- Boats sink in water

#  Get the snapshot

To install the snapshot, open up the [Minecraft Launcher](/download) and
enable snapshots in the "Launch Options" tab.

 **Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/mc/game/18w10d/server/28727c7dfb62c56ac48153ab9a25d42115f85f94/server.jar)


