# 18w50a
Published on 2018-12-12

It's that time of year again... You know the one, it happens every year in
December and brings a tear to everybody's eye... That's right, it's the last
major snapshot of the year!

Todays snapshot brings us a lot of cool Village related features, and we're
happy to finally get these out to you all before the year's up. We weren't
able to finish everything we wanted, however, so we'll see you again soon in
January with even more Village & Pillage features to help test!

Have a great new year, everybody!

#  Changes in 18w50a

  * Added Barrel functionality
  * Added Blast Furnace functionality
  * Added Smoker functionality
  * Added Bell sound
  * Added Jellie
  * New villages
  * Updated Villager
  * Changes to raids
  * Updated some textures
  * Fixed bugs

##  Barrel

  * Acts as a storage unit for all your things
  * Works in tight spaces

##  Blast Furnace

  * New furnace upgrade that allows for the smelting of ores and melting of metals faster than the traditional Furnace.
  * Can be crafted via 3 Smooth Stone, 1 Furnace, and 5 Iron Ingots.

##  Smoker

  * New furnace upgrade that allows for the smelting of foods faster than the traditional Furnace.
  * Can be crafted via 4 Logs, and 1 Furnace.

##  Villages

  * Added Taiga villages
  * Updated Desert villages

##  Villagers

  * Villagers and Zombie Villagers now have new fancy skins
  * Added Mason profession (trades will come later)
  * Cured Zombie Villagers retain their trades

##  Raid changes

  * Patrol captains now give 1-3 bad omen levels when killed. Outpost captains always give 1 only
  * Captains now spawn at outposts
  * Beasts start at wave 2, witches at wave 4, evoker wave 10

#  Fixed bugs in 18w50a

  * [MC-138660](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-138660) \- Throwable/Projectile entity item model not apply CustomModelData from model
  * [MC-139225](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-139225) \- Pillager arms incorrectly positioned when riding or unarmed
  * [MC-140069](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-140069) \- Banners lose their name when placed (49a: wall only)
  * [MC-140853](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-140853) \- Being close to the end island causes out of memory and file descriptor exhaustion

#  Get the snapshot

To install the snapshot, open up the [Minecraft Launcher](/download) and
enable snapshots in the "Launch Options" tab.

 **Snapshots can corrupt your world, please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/v1/objects/de0577900a9071758d7f1172dd283bdbe88b7431/server.jar)


