# 20w13a
Published on 2020-03-25

Ever felt that you want to take a ride across fields of lava? Yeah? Me too!
This snapshot introduces the adorable(?) **Strider**. It might need some help
with directions...

# New Features in 20w13a  

  * Added the lodestone
  * Added the Strider
  * Basalt is formed when lava flows over soul soil next to blue ice
  * Farmer villagers can now compost seeds

## Lodestone

A new block that can help you get your bearings!

  * Crafted from a Netherite ingot and chiseled stone bricks
  * Use a compass on a lodestone to create a lodestone compass pointing to that lodestone

## Strider

A new mob living the lava lakes of the Nether.

  * Striders can walk on top of the surface of lava
  * Can be saddled, but has a will of its own
  * Really likes the smell of warped fungi – might even be convinced to follow it

## Farmer Villagers

  * Farmers can now put excess seeds in the composter to create bone meal
  * Bone meal is used by the farmers to grow crops
  * Farmers share excess wheat to other farmers, so more farmers can make bread

# Changes in 20w13a  

  * You're now more likely to get soul speed books and boots from bartering with Piglins
  * You now can charge the respawn anchor using a dispenser

# Technical Changes in 20w13a

  * Jigsaw Block
  * A fishing location is now considered to be open water if the fishing hook is in water, there are no blocks besides lily pads above water and all water blocks are source blocks with no solid underwater blocks around

## Jigsaw Block

  * Jigsaw can now have one of 12 orientations
  * Added new property Joint type to describe if attached piece can be rotated (rollable) or not (aligned)
  * NBT field target_poo` has been renamed to pool
  * \- attachement_type has been split into name (on parent block) and target (on child block).

# Fixed bugs in 20w13a

  * 

# Get the snapshot

Snapshots are available for Minecraft: Java Edition. To install the snapshot,
open up the [Minecraft Launcher](/download.html) and enable snapshots in the
"Installations" tab.

**Snapshots can corrupt your world, so please backup and/or run them in a
different folder from your main worlds.**

Cross-platform server jar:

  * [Minecraft server jar](https://launcher.mojang.com/v1/objects/16f18c21286a3f566d3d0431d13aa133bebe6eff/server.jar)


